Crystal Kim
Dec. 14, 2017 10:54 a.m. ET
Bitcoin's parabolic rise, its volatility, and the product launches around the cryptoasset is all anyone can talk about these days, but that could be diverting attention from a more significant problem: the bubble in stocks.
So far Thursday morning, the price of bitcoin has declined to around $16,200, according to Coindesk.com. The $3 billion Bitcoin Investment Trust ( GBTC ) is up slightly. Meanwhile, the Dow is climbing and on Wednesday hit a new record close, its 68th this year.
Consider the 'Tale of Two Bubbles," says ICAP technical analyst Walter Zimmerman, "One obvious to all and one invisible to all." A Google Trend search comparison of "bitcoin bubble" and "stock market bubble" reveals the disparity. Bitcoin looks like Tulip Mania; its price movement rivals that of silver in 1980 . But stocks, most say, still look good. Zimmerman in a note published yesterday wrote:
Photo by Christopher Furlong/Getty Images
As I have noted many times, we live in the ‘Golden Age of the Speculative Bubble.’ In less than
twenty years we have had bubbles in internet stocks, commodities, real estate, credit, bonds -
both junk and treasuries, and now arguably in blue chip stocks. If we were to eliminate all these classes of investment, because they had bubbles, what would be left for investors? Nothing would remain.
Meanwhile everyone is long the stock market. All measures of bullish sentiment have been hitting new all time highs. And... no one sees any downside risk.
Societe Generale perma-bear Albert Edwards also noted how bitcoin has "diverted attention from the bubble in equities." The steepness and persistence of a price rally can help identify a bubble and Edwards sees some trouble in the S&P Composite index. Profits justify the surge, so people say, but Edwards thinks the recovery in earnings "looks increasingly fragile." In a report published this morning, he wrote:
...Scratch the surface and all is not well. Looking at only domestic, non-financial companies
(ie companies selling in the US), profits have barely rebounded on an economic basis (ie
adjusting for inventory gains and putting depreciation on an economic, rather than tax basis).
Of course, that doesn't mean something will go bump in the night. It takes a lot more than high valuations and bullish sentiment to wake a bear in hibernation.
Most Popular


Original link: https://www.barrons.com/articles/the-great-distraction-why-stock-bubble-is-more-dangerous-than-bitcoin-1513266889
