Published: Dec 13, 2017 7:19 p.m. ET
Share
If you have 33 bitcoin to spare, you might want to check out this Miami penthouse
Getty Images
Would you buy or sell a home in bitcoin?
By
SallyFrench
Social media editor & Drone Reporter
Attention bitcoin millionaires ready to spend your coins: here’s a very real-world purchase option -- no traditional cash required.
A Miami penthouse was listed on real estate site Redfin Corp. RDFN, -4.45%   for 33 bitcoin -- and that’s the only form of payment the listing says the seller will accept. Thirty-three bitcoin BTCUSD, +0.20%  translates to about $542,000.
Redfin
The person listing this Miami penthouse will only accept bitcoin.
The one-bedroom, one-and-a-half-bath condo has high ceilings, wood floors and views of Biscayne Bay and the Miami skyline. The building includes a fitness center, infinity pool, spa and party room. Price? “ONLY ACEPTING BITCOIN,” says the listing (including the typo).
Redfin says this is the first listing on the site in which the seller has specified bitcoin as the only payment option, though about 75 other sellers have said in their listings that they would be willing to accept bitcoin as payment. A Redfin spokesperson said most of the homes with the word “bitcoin” in their listing description were located in either California or Southern Florida.
Redfin
The Miami condo includes access to a fitness center, spa and infinity pool.
“Buying or selling a home is generally the largest transaction in someone’s life,” said Redfin chief economist Nela Richardson. “Switching to a currency with so much volatility puts people at risk in an area that should be a sound, steady investment. We think this home for sale is more of a rare event than the start of a larger trend.”
Other homes for sale that accept bitcoin include this five-bedroom San Francisco home with views of the Palace of Fine Arts, which is listed for $5.1 million (about 300 bitcoin). This four-bedroom home on Miami Beach’s exclusive Hibiscus Island is selling for $2.45 million (about 150 bitcoin). Don’t have as many bitcoins to spare -- or just trying to HODL as many as you can? This townhouse in Miami is selling for $338,878, which is just about 20 bitcoin.
U.S. bitcoin futures on Wednesday retreated below the $18,000 mark in their third full day of trading , while the spot price for the No.1 digital currency pulled back under $17,000.
More on bitcoin and cryptocurrencies


Original link: https://www.marketwatch.com/story/miami-penthouse-goes-on-the-market-for-33-bitcoin----cash-not-accepted-2017-12-13
