TomTeodorczuk
Entertainment writer
“I know Charles Xavier but not this Charles Xavier,” says British actor Patrick Stewart of the Professor’s character development in “Logan,” which was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay . James Mangold’s acclaimed X-Men movie released last spring, which marked Hugh Jackman’s swan song as Wolverine.
Stewart has played Xavier seven times in the X-Men franchise since 2000, and as with Jackman, said goodbye to the series with “Logan.”
But not just yet. Stewart and Jackman have generated Oscar buzz for their performances in “Logan” and on Monday, both actors — together with director James Mangold — attended an awards-season event hosted by the Peggy Siegal Company at the Whitby Hotel in New York.
“Logan” is the eighth highest-grossing movie of the year. “It was like a fresh beginning, but a beginning on which you had the strongest but the most firm launchpad,” Stewart said of “Logan.” Referencing director Mangold, he said, “For someone to come along and disassemble the character that you’ve been playing and re-assemble him in a completely different way was so irresistible.”
MarketWatch talked with Stewart afterwards and it’s clear the 77-year-old is as young as the day he started acting.
MarketWatch: Your performance in “Logan” has generated acclaim but do you actually enjoy the awards campaigning process?
Patrick Stewart: It’s part of the job. I’ve been doing a lot of that over the past few weeks and I have enjoyed it. It gives you an opportunity to talk about the work and why you do it the way you do it, particularly with people who love film.
You’ve done so much on stage and screen but do you have any unrealized acting ambitions? Are there any roles you want to play?
Such a lot! There are things I’ve done before on stage that I want to do again. Things I haven’t done, I want to do. I get excited every time a new movie script pops up on my screen.
Any more Shakespeare in the pipeline?
Yes. I’m trying to pursue a project where we’re combining Shakespeare and movies. I’m very hopeful. It’s this simple — I’m enjoying working today as much, if not more, than I ever did.
How much is this enjoyment linked to your soccer team Huddersfield Town finally being in England’s premier league this season?
All I will say about that is a video has just arrived on my laptop and when I get home, I will be watching our victory over Brighton & Hove Albion on Saturday. Apparently we played brilliantly.
Much noise was made about you on your Twitter prowess. So how do you feel about Bitcoin?
I have no idea what a Bitcoin is! I started reading about it several years ago and then I didn’t understand it. So I just turned the page at that point.
Tom Teodorczuk
Tom Teodorczuk is a MarketWatch entertainment writer in New York.
We Want to Hear from You
Join the conversation


Original link: https://www.marketwatch.com/story/patrick-stewart-weighs-in-on-logan-unrealized-ambitions-and-bitcoin-2017-12-12
