Bitcoin craze: Be prepared to LOSE money as cryptocurrency 'DWARVES' 1929 crash bubble
sponsored by
City & Business News
Bitcoin craze: Be prepared to LOSE money as cryptocurrency 'DWARVES' 1929 crash bubble
THE HEAD of Fisher Investments said Bitcoin will top all previous investment crashes and will “dwarf” the bubble that preceded the 1929 crash that triggered the Great Depression.
PUBLISHED: 12:55, Fri, Dec 15, 2017
| UPDATED: 13:01, Fri, Dec 15, 2017
0
The Head of Fisher Investments Ken Fisher told CNBC he thinks Bitcoin is a risky investment as it will “dwarf” all previous successful investment bubbles.
He said: “Let me just say that another way to think about bitcoin, which I don’t think most people do, is to take the peak of prior bubbles – whatever they were – and line up the peak with trading days before and after, and look at the magnitude up and down. 
“If you look at Bitcoin, coming up to this point today and overlay it with the peak, it dwarves all other bubbles.” 
CNBC•GETTY
'Bitcoin will dwarf all previous crash bubbles', says Ken Fisher of Fisher Investments
He added: “Gold a couple of times, 1929, 1990, 2000 with Nasdaq. 
“You could just go down the list: boom, boom, boom. This one in magnitude, whether it’s a bubble or not, the price move around that burst every bubble that ever occurred.”
The American analyst was joined by other financial experts on his scepticism towards the future of the new currency. 
The head of the Financial Conduct Authorities Andrew Bailey said that if people will invest in Bitcoin could lose all their money.
He said: “If you want to invest in Bitcoin, be prepared to lose all your money. That would be my serious warning.”
“If I thought there was evidence that people are saying, ‘You know what I’m going to put my pension into? - Bitcoin’, I would be very concerned.”
Economic experts share Bitcoin opinions
Mon, December 11, 2017


Original link: https://www.express.co.uk/finance/city/892769/Bitcoin-news-Bitcoin-craze-1929-crash-bubble-Bitconnet-Bitcoin-cash-prize-Ken-Fisher
