Bitcoin price latest: Why is the Bitcoin price going up SO FAST? Could bitcoin crash?
sponsored by
City & Business News
Bitcoin price latest: Why is the Bitcoin price going up SO FAST? Could bitcoin crash?
THE latest bitcoin price boom is being driven by Wall Street’s “growing embrace” of the cryptocurrency, according to a leading economic historian.
PUBLISHED: 17:41, Tue, Dec 12, 2017
| UPDATED: 18:05, Tue, Dec 12, 2017
0
Getty
Bitcoin price latest: Why is the price Bitcoin rising SO HIGH? The meteoric rise explained
Bitcoin rose more than 15 percent on Monday alone, surging past $17,000 to hit a new record high, after almost tripling in value over the past month. 
The price surge came after the bitcoin futures launch late on Sunday gave investors exposure to the bitcoin market via a large, regulated exchange for the first time.
Dr Garrick Hileman, economic historian at the University of Cambridge, said: “The key recent driver has been Wall St’s growing embrace of bitcoin. 
“CME, CBOE, and NASDAQ all announced the launch of futures markets for bitcoin, and many see this as further legitimization of bitcoin as a new asset class.
Related articles
Bitcoin price: Should you buy Bitcoin today? Will you gain or lose?
“We have also seen the global user base dramatically grow from approximately 5 million in April of this year to between 20-30 million now.” 
He said that between 80 and 90 per cent of new users are investors, meaning only a small fraction of new bitcoin adoption is for its use as a currency. 
The key recent driver has been Wall St’s growing embrace of bitcoin
Dr Garrick Hileman, economic historian at the University of Cambridge
Chicago-based derivatives exchange CBOE launched the futures late on Sunday, while the CME Group is due to launch its futures contract this weekend.
NASDAQ, the world’s second largest stock exchange, is expected to launch bitcoin futures in the first half of 2018. Futures are a way to bet on or hedge against bitcoin
Nevertheless Wall Street remains skeptical of the highly volatile digital currency, with critics warning that bitcoin could be a bubble about to burst.   
Despite hopes that futures will draw in new investors, most fund managers at larger firms see bitcoin as too volatile and lacking the fundamentals that give other assets value.
Asked if there could be a bitcoin crash, Dr Hileman said: “Any time the price of an investment asset moves up quickly there is a risk of a significant correction. 
“Both in 2011 and 2014, following sharp increases in price bitcoin subsequently lost nearly 90% of its value. 
“However, unlike Dutch tulips, bitcoin’s price has repeatedly bounced back from these setbacks. 
Economic experts share Bitcoin opinions
Mon, December 11, 2017


Original link: https://www.express.co.uk/finance/city/891440/Bitcoin-price-latest-why-Bitcoin-going-up-rising
