Indian I-T department conducts surveys at Bitcoin exchanges across the country
By
Tweet on Twitter
Indian Income Tax department has conducted a survey of all the Bitcoin exchanges operating in the country. There are about nine Bitcoin exchanges operating in various cities. The main aim of these surveys is to devise some regulations for the virtual currencies. All this is going on after the warnings issued by the Reserve Bank of India. The bank has warned people of investing in these currencies. There are reports that the authorities have not arrested anyone. They have taken some necessary documents for checking tax evasions.
The sources say that the Tax department wants to assess the sources of income. The department is conducting the surveys under section 133A of the Income Tax Act. The survey teams have some special data about the working of these exchanges. This is the first time that government is taking action against these exchanges in the country. This is because there are no regulations about virtual currencies in India. The central banks are in a great concern over this issue.
ALSO READ  MyGov portal offers contract jobs for Indian citizens
A disciplinary committee from Finance Ministry is issuing cautions for the virtual currencies. It has also advised the Income Tax Authorities to keep an eye on all the transactions taking place in this field. Bitcoin is one of the oldest cryptocurrencies. Its value has crossed $17,000 and is further increasing. The value has crossed Rs 14 lakh in India and set the government regulators to think about it.
Earlier, we have heard that China has also cracked down on all the virtual currency exchanges. It has stopped the operations of two largest virtual currency exchanges in the country. BTCC and OKCoins were two largest exchanges.
India is taking steps to regulate these cryptocurrencies and joined the fleet of those countries that are devising regulations for these currencies.


Original link: http://www.indiantribune.com/business/indian-t-department-conducts-surveys-bitcoin-exchanges-across-country-12822.html
