Share this article
Share
While Bitcoin has added another fifth to its value since Monday, trading has been slightly calmer than the wild price swings the market has seen in recent weeks, with volatility lower since the launch of Bitcoin futures from Cboe Global Markets on Sunday.
Belfort thinks Bitcoin's value will rise in the short term before crashing.
'I think it's a huge danger right now that people are looking at this as the next great thing, it's a bubble for sure,' Belfort told CNN.
Jordan Belfort, the real @wolfofwallst , knows a thing or two about financial risks. He says Bitcoin is now a "huge danger" https://t.co/Rzt0OeJ1qu
— Quest Means Business (@questCNN) December 11, 2017
He compared Bitcoin to the 17th century 'tulip mania' in Holland, where the value of tulip bulbs skyrocketed before rapidly dropping.
'The next stage, you will see it really skyrocket, there will be a short squeeze, it will go even higher and then eventually it will come caving in, it's almost a guarantee,' Belfort said.
Belfort isn't the only one predicting Bitcoin's demise. Andrew Bailey (above), the head of the British government's Financial Conduct Authority, told the BBC on Thursday that anyone who invests in Bitcoin should be prepared to 'lose all their money'
'If you were the most disciplined person and get in and get out there is probably a short window to make some money.
'But that's not human nature, people will get in and make some money and they want to make more money.
'In the tulip bubble the beginning of the end was when they started trading futures on tulips, that was another move up and then all of a sudden it collapses and it's over.'
Belfort isn't the only one predicting Bitcoin's demise.
Andrew Bailey, the head of the British government's Financial Conduct Authority, told the BBC on Thursday that anyone who invests in Bitcoin should be prepared to 'lose all their money.' 
Advertisement


Original link: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-5185485/Wolf-Wall-Street-says-Bitcoin-huge-scam.html
