Don't Play
"I didn't take them seriously at first but their manager has been in touch and they are actually following through with it."
Now Budin talks about the news coming out of the cryptocurrency world with his group of friends - he calls them the 'crypto gang'.
Tom Budin is an electronic music producer who uses applications like Coinbase to buy cryptocurrencies and transfer them to friends.
Photo: Christopher Pearce
Advertisement
"We have [joined] together and created this 'help each other out' mentality."
The world's most popular cryptocurrency, bitcoin, has been on a tear, making a 15-fold gain since the start of the year , captivating everyone from mum and dad speculators to Wall Street trading firms.
The rise has also prompted warnings of a speculative bubble from the likes of billionaire Warren Buffett and JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon amid concerns about it having no intrinsic value.
Many economists believe bitcoin is problematic but the issue is contentious.
The world's most popular cryptocurrency, bitcoin, has been on a tear, making a 15-fold gain since the start of the year.
Photo: Andrey Rudakov
Decentralised cryptocurrencies work differently to Australian dollars in that they are not influenced by a central bank like the RBA and so there are no mechanisms in place to dampen price volatility.
And its price has been very volatile, trading above $US16,000 on Friday morning when a month ago, it was worth less than $US8000.
A man uses a Bitcoin ATM in Hong Kong this month. COINJAR now has an Eftpos card that lets you spend bitcoin at 950,000 Eftpos terminals throughout Australia, or withdraw as cash at any ATM with no monthly charges.
Photo: KIN CHEUNG
With over 50 per cent of bitcoin owners holding just 0.01 per cent of the 17 million coins in circulation, it's safe to say that most people in the network only hold a fraction of a coin.
The launch of bitcoin futures this week on a regulated exchange, Cboe Global Markets, marked an important milestone for bitcoin's shift from the fringes of finance toward the mainstream.
The launch of Bitcoin futures this week on a regulated exchange, Cboe Global Markets, marked an important milestone for bitcoin's shift from the fringes of finance toward the mainstream.
Photo: KIICHIRO SATO
"My mate's dad told me about cryptos about a year and a half ago but I was hesitant and sceptical at first," Budin says.
"I wish I had listened to him - my mates and I thought he was crazy."
He is going to follow in the footsteps of his mate's dad and save his cryptos for "the benefit of his future children".
Budin, who works from home producing electronic music for artists in America and the UK, started trading with Ethereum and Litecoin, which are known as alternative coins or altcoins because they came after bitcoin.
But the method for buying and selling cryptocurrencies is by and large the same.
Understand blockchain
Budin first developed a "rough" understanding of the blockchain,​ which is a secure way to record transactions and shows promise for use in other applications such as digital voting .
A blockchain is a distributed ledger built around a network of peers, where everyone has access to the same ledger and can see the history of transactions. Transactions are automatically cross-checked and verified through a consensus process called "mining".
A spokesman of the Blockchain Association of Australia said miners "provide their computing power in exchange for the potential reward of receiving new bitcoin, which are issued to miners in exchange for keeping the network operational".
​But you can't see who sent or received a transaction unless you can match a person to their public key, which is a series of cryptographically generated letters and numbers anywhere from 27 to 34 characters long that define one's address.
Most altcoins use blockchain technology, with many aiming to improve upon what bitcoin laid out in 2009.
Find a broker site
The next step is to find a broker site or application where you can buy and sell cryptocurrencies.
To avoid losing your cryptos to hackers, Budin advises to be smart with your browsing, noting it's not the best decision to be "doing your cryptocurrency transactions on a McDonald's free Wi-Fi network".
He started with Coinbase but says CoinSpot is another easy place to buy the major cryptocurrencies when starting out.
There are numerous crypto broker and exchange sites on the market, with some of the largest Australian-owned ones being Independent Reserve , CoinTree , Australia Crypto Exchange , BTC markets and COINJAR .
Although Coinbase will let you buy cryptocurrencies using Australian dollars, it does not let you sell for Australian dollars although most Australian exchanges will. Living Room Of Satoshi is an Australian fintech that will buy your bitcoin for Australian dollars and let you pay off your bills or credit card.
COINJAR now has an Eftpos card that lets you spend bitcoin at 950,000 Eftpos terminals throughout Australia, or withdraw as cash at any ATM with no monthly charges.
"It's just important you compare their fees, think about security and do your research," Budin says.
All Australian exchanges are required by law to obtain valid identity declaration forms from all accounts.
The different cryptocurrency wallets
A cryptocurrency wallet doesn't actually store your money like a wallet you might have in your pocket, it just acts as an interface to connect your private and public key.
One of the most common wallets is a desktop wallet, which stores your private key on your hard drive.
"Desktop wallets are pretty secure because they don't connect to outside servers but are just on your machine," Budin says.
"But the problem with desktop wallets is you have to keep your computer safe and well protected. This means you will need a good firewall and anti-virus set-up so hackers and malware don't steal your private key."
Budin uses Trezor, a brand of hardware wallet that connects to his computer via USB. If he forgets his Trezor pin code, he can type in his 24-word "recovery seed", which is basically a password.
If he loses his hardware wallet he can buy a new one and input his recovery seed to regain access to his funds.
But what he is really looking out for are cryptocurrency debit cards, which are available offshore and he hopes will be widely available here soon.
And to be extra safe, he's going to create a paper wallet. This is a print-out of a private and public key, the two things needed to make a transaction.
The advantage of a paper wallet is it's completely offline and therefore cannot be hacked but "it's extremely important that this is kept secure because if somebody gets their hands on it, your money could vanish".
There are also online wallets, which are third-party websites that store your private key. While these are "easy to use", they are also "more vulnerable to hackers". The third-party online wallet service may also charge a fee on transactions.
Coinbase claims to store 98 per cent of user's private keys in "cold storage". This means it encrypts a user's private key and stores it on a USB and paper wallet then locks it away in a vault somewhere around the world where it is not connected to the internet.
Transferring cryptos
Once you are set up, you can transfer cryptocurrencies to other people if you have their public key.
When transferring, make sure you get the person's address right or you will forever lose that money, a mistake made by Budin in the past.
Transferring Ethereum and Litecoin to his friends usually takes around 15 minutes if there is no congestion in the network, unlike his dealings with bank transfers.
The tax implications
Although the Australian Tax Office does not view cryptocurrencies as either a money or foreign currency, transactions by individuals are still subject to capital gains tax while businesses may need to pay GST.
The ATO says cryptocurrency holders need to keep records of dates, amounts in Australian dollars, reasons and addresses of every transaction as set out in its tax guide.
Hall & Wilcox business lawyers have a detailed guide for cryptocurrency tax but still strongly advise investors "to seek their own tax advice based on their personal circumstances".
bitcoin price volatility is expected to increase following Cboe Global Markets' launch of bitcoin futures trading on Monday, which is soon to be followed by similar offerings from CME Group and Nasdaq. It may open the door to greater inflows of institutional money while also allowing people to get exposure to the cryptocurrency without the need to use a cryptocurrency exchange or broker.
But Budin says whatever happens to the crypto market, "no one should be discouraged from using blockchain technology".
Loading
"It's here to stay and it is here to change the world."
with wires


Original link: http://www.smh.com.au/business/markets/i-didnt-take-them-seriously-at-first-how-tom-joined-the-bitcoin-boom-20171130-gzvsw1.html
