Share this article
Share
For federal prosecutors in Utah, sales of seized assets like cars are routine, but Bitcoin is new territory, spokeswoman Melodie Rydalch said Thursday.
The proceeds of the sale of the bitcoin seized in connection with Shamo's alleged drug ring will be held until the case is resolved, and then decisions will be made about where the money goes, Rydalch said.
Seized asset sale proceeds usually goes to the agency that investigated, like the Drug Enforcement Administration.
Defense attorney Greg Skordas is not contesting the sale of his client's bitcoin.
While late adopters aren't necessarily sure about the classification of Bitcoin - debate rages over whether the virtual money is an asset or a currency - that hasn't stopped officials in the US and elsewhere from cashing in on the digital hauls seized from cybercriminals.
Bitcoin was created in 2009 as a digital, anonymous alternative to traditional currency, and has always been prone to swings in value, but the markethasn't seen anything like this before
In 2014 the US Marshals Service announced the auction of nearly 30,000 bitcoins seized from notorious dark web drug marketplace Silk Road. Other seizures have since netted the American government millions of dollars in a series of sales.
Other governments - from Australia to South Korea - have set up similar auctions over the years.
Shamo is accused of selling pills containing the powerful opioid fentanyl on the dark web - an area of the internet often used for illegal activity - to thousands of people all over the US, at one point raking in $2.8 million in less than a year. It's also alleged he passed the pills off as oxycodone, according to the Deseret News .
The 500,000-pill bust ranked among the largest of its kind in the country, and authorities also found $1 million in cash stuffed into trash bags.
Shamo has pleaded not guilty to a dozen charges, including possession of fentanyl with intent to distribute, aiding and abetting the importation of a controlled substance, money laundering, and use of the U.S. mail in a drug trafficking offense
 


Original link: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-5181577/US-prosecutors-cash-8-5M-seized-bitcoin.html
