Dec 18, 2017
Announcing Collaboration with Serviceplan
Serviceplan is a Leading Global Agency with a prominent clientele that includes BMW, IKEA and Lufthansa
We are excited to announce our collaboration with Serviceplan, one of the largest independent agency groups worldwide, to transform the Indorse platform.
Serviceplan , repeatedly awarded for pushing boundaries through innovative approaches, will work with Indorse on re-branding, user experience and communication strategy. Headquartered in Germany with offices in Europe, Asia and the Middle East, Serviceplan is serving a range of industry leaders such as BMW, IKEA, Lufthansa and UNICEF. Serviceplan Innovation have worked on numerous award-winning projects utilizing ground-breaking technology, for example the multiple award-winning world’s first Braille smartwatch DOT.
Gaurang Torvekar, co-founder and CTO of Indorse said: “With the recent launch of our decentralized social network it is vital that we continue to build a strong brand and a captivating platform. From the start of our journey, it has been our aim to provide users with benefits and opportunities that current social network sites are denying them, such as data ownership, privacy, and security. In order to take on the leaders in this space, we require a stellar brand and a solid identity.”
Offering users full control over their own data as they build their professional profiles and share skills on the platform, Indorse aims to build a serverless, decentralized network where professionals benefit from platform growth and data insights rather than third parties. Through participation in the platform, members of Indorse are able to earn rewards for sharing more about themselves and for “indorsing” the claims of others.
“Data ownership should be at the hands of the producer, unlike traditional platforms such as LinkedIn, Indorse aims to give back the power to users and reward them for their contribution. Through this collaboration with Serviceplan, along with our technical advancements and community outreach, we believe we have the potential to build a mainstream, decentralized network for professionals,” said Torvekar.
Lorenz Langgartner, Creative Innovation Director at Serviceplan said, “Indorse ultimately uses decentralization to tackle discrimination. Making the complex mechanisms behind this potentially world-changing product accessible for a mainstream audience is an intriguing communicative challenge.”
Saurabh Kakade, Innovation Art Director at Serviceplan added, “We are excited to get involved in translating the benefit and value of Indorse into a strong, emotional and unique brand that will come to life through inspiring communication.”
Brainstorming Sessions
Our team is currently visiting the Serviceplan offices in Munich to brainstorm and discuss more about the collaboration. A glimpse of our first few brainstorming sessions with Serviceplan:
We look forward to a great collaboration, some fantastic ideas, and super creative campaigns!


Original link: https://blog.indorse.io/announcing-collaboration-with-serviceplan-f5d9e4f09618
