Sign up or login to join the discussions!
Stay logged in
Sign up to comment and more Sign up
cha-ching —
Feds moving quickly to cash in on seized bitcoin, now worth $8.4 million
Authorities seized 513 BTC and 512 BCH from a suspected Dark Web dealer.
Famed investor Tim Draper wins auction of Silk Road’s 29,655 bitcoins
A federal judge in Utah has agreed to let the US government sell off a seized cache of more than 513 bitcoins (BTC) and 512 Bitcoin Cash (BCH). At current prices, that would yield approximately $8.4 million for the bitcoins and nearly $1 million for the BCH.
In a court filing, prosecutors noted that due to the volatility of the Bitcoin market, both coins risk losing value. Both the BTC and the BCH have already been transferred to government-controlled wallets.
The new round of seized digital currency belonged to a Utah man named Aaron Shamo, who prosecutors say led a multimillion-dollar ring of counterfeit pharmaceuticals , including oxycodone and alprazolam that were sold on Dark Web marketplaces. Shamo was arrested over a year ago—his trial has not yet been scheduled.
Further Reading
Bitcoin surges to $15,000—a 25-percent rise in 48 hours
On Tuesday, US District Judge Dale Kimball allowed the sale to proceed . Once sold, the money would go to an account held at the Treasury Executive Office for Asset Forfeiture.
Given Bitcoin’s incredible rise in price over the last year , the sale is likely to result in the highest number of dollars of any forfeited cryptocurrency associated with a criminal bust. In 2014, nearly 30,000 bitcoins that once belonged to the notorious Silk Road website were sold to Tim Draper, a well-known Silicon Valley venture capitalist.
In November 2017, shortly before the sentencing of ex-Secret Service agent Shaun Bridges, federal authorities moved to begin the forfeiture process of his seized 1,400 bitcoins.
The government is currently in a 60-day waiting period, which expires at the end of the year, before it can begin to process the sale in early 2018. At current exchange rates, those bitcoins would be worth approximately $23.6 million.
Cyrus Farivar Cyrus is a Senior Tech Policy Reporter at Ars Technica, and is also a radio producer and author. His latest book, Habeas Data , about the legal cases over the last 50 years that have had an outsized impact on surveillance and privacy law in America, is out now from Melville House. He is based in Oakland, California.


Original link: https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2017/12/feds-moving-quickly-to-cash-in-on-seized-bitcoin-now-worth-8-4-million/
