Thanks, I am sure google will be able to guide me!
Vote
   Report  Tweet
Sly21C 6 months ago
It’s very funny in this day and age that people still think taxation is necessary, and that central banking isn’t largely a scam private company. It’s high time people learn how money is “really” created.
SARS and other tax authorities are fighting a losing game, with decentralized exchanges coming up. There won’t be any central authority in decentralized exchanges for tax authorities to request information from because KYC won’t be needed to be a member of a decentralized exchange.
Having said this, the use of decentralized consensus algorithms and blockchain will one day result in a system or protocol being created that will replace central banks, governments and the tax system.
Vote   3
Log in to Reply    Report  Tweet
MichaelfromKlerksdorp 6 months ago
“Death & Taxes”…always a certainly, since the beginning of civilization. If the current status quo (of central banks, Governments, tax) is eventually replaced, the population will just be “controlled” by a different system. Rather, I think existing Govts & the business world will be keen to use blockchain to their advantage.
The opposite is happening the past few years: thanks to the hard work of IT-specialists leading to ever-advancing technology, the global tax authorities are finding it ever EASIER to uncover hidden undeclared wealth in various havens. Once physical cash is totally replaced, all transactions will one day go through a super one-world “computer”…the little cash and carry shops also can’t hide…and EVERYONE will be easier traced. A Tax collectors dream. Yeah…bring on the technology!
The rich will continue to control the poor / broader civilization, no matter what technology leads us to the future.
Quote: “The more the world changes, the more it remains the same” (re human nature)
The word “decentralized” gets thrown around a lot when blockchain is discussed. Don’t be mislead: the blockchain verification/protocol is (mostly) CONTROLLED by the few global entities who have the biggest capital to afford to run super-expensive mining/verification technology.
Would love to pay ZERO tax (just imagine everyone with a third extra disposable income for individuals & businesses….we’ll make the economy buzz!) But think again: then EVERYTHING will have to be privatized. There will be so much civil chaos, as every time you need a road to travel on, or water water delivered to the house, or sewerage collected….you need to get a few quotes from private operators. Back to the Flintstones. TAX is unfortunately a function of a modern society, irrespective how useless many governments typically are globally in the opinion of their citizens.
Vote   2
Log in to Reply    Report  Tweet
Sly21C 6 months ago
I agree with you on most points. Going forward, only very large, controlled and centralized companies will be able to perform mining operations because of the issue of block sizes. We’re actually already seeing this. An individual with a home computer will never be able to mine bitcoin, because of the huge computational power to solve cryptographic algorithms so as to secure the network. So decentralization is not really decentralized in that instance. And because the adoption of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies is growing, the resources needed to secure networks will only be able to be performed by centrally owned and controlled companies.
With a coin such as Monero, and other coins that allow private transactions, do you think it’s possible for tax authorities to still trace or link cryptos to an individual? Provided the individual used decentralized exchanges?
Yep, the rich will always control and have power over the poor.
Regarding tax, I think it is possible for a consensus algorithm, protocol or something of the sort to be created that might make taxes irrelevant. We’re already coming to the realization that banks are actually irrelevant if people have the power to control their own money through wallets. If a protocol can be created that allows money to be raised in a consensus manner, and oracles that will link the blockchain to real world activities, then it is possible for money that can be raised to be used to build roads, hospitals, pay government employees, etc. I can see this happening in future, provided governments don’t stop it or ban it which might kill the adoption of it.
Vote   1


Original link: https://www.moneyweb.co.za/mymoney/moneyweb-tax/yes-sars-wants-to-track-your-bitcoin-trades/
