Sun Savers
A BIT LIKE BITCOIN
Iota price news – what is IOT’s value in GBP and USD and how can you buy the cryptocurrency?
Iota – which stands for Internet of Things Application – is a digital currency similar to Bitcoin
By Tom Michael
21st February 2018, 11:45 am
Updated: 21st February 2018, 12:05 pm
IOTA is one of several cryptocurrencies that made making waves in the latter half of 2017 as the digital currency market boomed.
Here's everything you need to know about it, and how much it's worth today…
Getty - Contributor
Iota is a bit like Bitcoin but different in a few key ways
What is Iota?
Iota – which stands for Internet of Things Application – is a cryptocurrency, similar to Bitcoin.
But it is different in certain key ways.
Bitcoins aren’t printed, like pounds, dollars or euros – they’re produced by people, and increasingly businesses, running computers all around the world.
To process Bitcoin transactions, a procedure called “mining” must take place, which involves a computer solving a difficult mathematical problem with a 64-digit solution.
For each problem solved, one block of Bitcoin is processed.
Iota, on the other hand, removes the need for this by asking anyone submitting a transaction to verify two other random transactions.
It all sounds quite technical but it basically means it is decentralised, there’s no fee for transactions and the more people using Iota the faster the network becomes.
How do I buy Iota?
You can buy Iota by using something called a crypto exchange – the same as if you were buying other cryptocurrencies.
The main difference with Iota is that it is not available to buy directly with traditional cash – you can only trade it for another cryptocurrency.
That means if you want to get your hands on some Iota, you first need to acquire something like Bitcoin or Ethereum.
Some of the most popular options for buying these are Coinbase, Blockchain.info and Xapo.
You can then trade them on certain crypto exchanges for Iota.
There are currently only two exchanges with significant trade volume of Iota – Bitfinex and Binance.
Bitfinex is based in Hong Kong and is better for non-US customers.
But anyone thinking of investing in Iota or any other cryptocurrencies should be very careful.
Their values are volatile, with the ability to plummet as quickly as they shoot up.
And investors are frequently targeted by hackers and other criminals who seek to steal their crypto-cash online.
Latest on cryptocurrencies
The British fraudster executed in gang battle over savers' stolen millions
'I feel scammed and stupid'
Tube worker lost £16K from fake celeb Bitcoin con run by crims
Bit Con
Inside fake Bitcoin gangs using celeb ads on Facebook to fleece Brits out of £200m
bitcoin bust
Bitcoin price boom manipulated by 'mother of all crypto scams', say experts
BIT VOLATILE
Bitcoin price news – today’s value in GBP and USD amid crunch time for BTC
GEEK'S GOLD
What exactly is the cryptocurrency Bitcoin and how much is it worth today?
Is Iota as valuable as Bitcoin?
Iota is a newer currency which – trading as "IOT" – was worth £1.37 ($1.91) on February 21, a tiny fraction of Bitcoin at £7927.40 ($11036.33).
The currency has been struggling since the possibility of regulation in South Korea was announced , and slumped to a price of just £1.01 ($1.41) on February 6.
Iota is some way shy of its December high of £3.77 after suffering from a massive crash over January 2018.
Man named Satoshi Nakamoto denies he is the creator of Bitcoin


Original link: https://www.thesun.co.uk/money/5078469/iota-price-buy-cryptocurrency-bitcoin/
