By: Chris_Vermeulen
Recently, we have been asked by a number of  clients about the precious metals and what our advice would be with regards to buying,  selling or holding physical or trading positions in the metals.  There are really only a few short and simple  answers to this question and they are revolve around the concept of providing a  hedge against risk, capital preservation and opportunity for returns.  Let's explore the details a bit further.
First, Gold, historically, has been and will  continue to be the basis of physical wealth for the foreseeable future.  Currently, Gold and Silver are relatively low  cost compared to other assets offering similar protection.   As of right now, Gold and Silver are nearing  the lowest price ratio levels, historically, that have existed since 1990.  This means, the relationship of the price  ratio for Gold and Silver are comparatively low in relationship to how Gold and  Silver are priced in peak levels.  So,  right now is the time to be acquiring Gold and Silver as a low price hedge  against another global crisis event or market meltdown.
People are starting to park their money in  digital currencies, like Bitcoin and Ethereum, rather than parking them in fiat  currencies – I buy and hold my currencies in this crypto wallet CoinBase.  This is primarily due to the Negative Interest Rate Policy as well as Zero  Interest Rate Policy of the Central Banks, which explains the sharp rise in the  price of Bitcoin, this year.
Taking a look at this chart of the DOW Index  shown in relative Gold Ounce price levels, we can see that every peak in this  ratio above 15 or so has resulted in a dramatic ratio level reversion  (decline).  This reversion means that  asset prices (the DOW price level) declined while the price of Gold rose or  stayed relatively stable.  The current  level is well above 17 and any peak in this level should start the next rally  in precious metals while global equities contract.
Second, the fact that the Gold and Silver  price ratio is historically very low (meaning they provide a very good hedging  opportunity at historically very low price ratio levels) also means that cash  can be traded for physical gold with very limited risk and provide an excellent  hedge for inflation, global market crisis events and as long term  investments.  Taking advantage of the  current market conditions, one has to be aware that crisis events do exist and  present a clear risk to future equity investments.  One could decide to risk further capital  hedging with options or short positions as risk becomes more evident, but these  are inherently more risky than a physical Gold or Silver investment.  Physical Gold or Silver, especially rare  coins which include greater intrinsic value, can provide real capital, real  gains, real hedging of risk and real return – whereas the short positions or  options are only valuable if the trade is executed to profit.
The relationship of the US Dollar to Gold is  key to understanding precious metals valuations.  As the US Dollar increases in value, this  puts pressure on the price of Gold because most of the world operates in US Dollars  and Gold is typically a hedge against risk and inflation.  Therefore, as the US Dollar increases in  value, there is a perceived view that risks and inflation are less of a threat  to the global economy.
As this chart, below, shows, the US Dollar  is currently settling within a FLAG formation that could result in downside  price action – below recent support.  When we consider the first chart, showing the price of Gold being  historically very cheap and the ratio being above 17, we must assume that any  downside price activity in Gold is a blessing right now because these levels  have not been seen since 1999, 1965 or 1929.  In other words, this is potentially a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for  investors.
Lastly, Gold and Silver are very limited in  supply on this planet and, unless society decides that Gold or Silver is  absolutely worthless as a substance, will likely continue to increase in  value.  News that China and Russia are  acquiring hundreds of tons of gold each year in preparation for a gold based  currency are another set of reasons that you should consider starting your own  physical hoard of precious metals.  The  most important thing for you to understand about owning physical Gold and  Silver is that it is a protective investment that can be liquidated or resold  at almost any time in the future.  It can  be traded, held, secured and transported easily.  You can physically take possession of your  Gold and Silver and be assured that through any banking crisis, global market  crisis or major global event, you have enough physical precious metal to  operate in a crisis mode and likely attain great wealth/gains in the process.
Think of physical Gold and Silver like an “emergency kit”.  You hope you never need  it, but when you do need it, you had better be prepared and have set aside some  physical holdings before the crisis event happened.  Out here in California, we keep “Earthquake  Kits” with emergency supplies, water, lanterns, food and other essentials.  Well, guess what is included in my Earthquake  Kit?  Yup – Gold and Silver in proper  quantities that I could barter and trade for items that are essential.
This final chart is the Gold to Silver ratio  and is used to identify when price disparity between the two most common  precious metals is opportunistic for one metal over the other.  When the price of Gold is high compared to  the price of Silver, this ratio will climb.  When the price of Silver increases, because of perceived market risks,  this ratio will decline.  Currently, one  can see that we are nearing a peak in this ratio chart – meaning that Silver is  much cheaper, in relative terms, than gold.  Because of this, investors should consider Silver and Gold as viable  wealth protection. 
Should another market crisis event unfold,  both Silver and Gold will likely rally.  This chart is telling us that Silver will likely rally by a larger  percentage value than Gold to result in a decline in this ratio and resulting  in closer “parity” between the valuations of these two precious metals.  Again, currently this is very close to a  once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for investors.
The point of my post is that I can think of  no reasons why anyone would not want to attain some physical Gold and Silver at  today's prices to protect against known risks, provide a hedge against  inflation and crisis events and to protect wealth from what we all know will  happen in a crisis event – the banks will close or limit cash availability  (think of Greece).  So, it is really up  to you to determine if and how you want to prepare for what could happen in the  future.  Will you have your “emergency  kit” and be prepared or not?
Now is the time to consider building your “emergency kit” and to prepare for the next market crisis event.  Our research team is ready to assist you and  to keep you updated with Daily and Weekly update for all the major  markets.  Visit www.TheTechnicalTraders.com to learn more about our services and newsletters today.
These moves could be explosive and we want to assist you in profiting   from them with our advanced research and technology.  Check out www.ActiveTradingPartners.com today to learn more.
Chris Vermeulen
www.TheGoldAndOilGuy.com – Daily Market Forecast Video & ETFs
www.ActiveTradingPartners.com – Stock & 3x ETFs
Chris Vermeulen is Founder of the popular trading site TheGoldAndOilGuy.com .  There he shares his highly successful, low-risk trading method.  For 7 years Chris has been a leader in teaching others to skillfully trade in gold, oil, and silver in both bull and bear markets.  Subscribers to his service depend on Chris' uniquely consistent investment opportunities that carry exceptionally low risk and high return.
Disclaimer:   Nothing in this report should be construed as a solicitation to buy or   sell any securities mentioned. Technical Traders Ltd., its owners and   the author of this report are not registered broker-dealers or financial   advisors. Before investing in any securities, you should consult with   your financial advisor and a registered broker-dealer. Never make an   investment based solely on what you read in an online or printed report,   including this report, especially if the investment involves a small,   thinly-traded company that isn’t well known. Technical Traders Ltd. and   the author of this report has been paid by Cardiff Energy Corp. In   addition, the author owns shares of Cardiff Energy Corp. and would also   benefit from volume and price appreciation of its stock. The information   provided here within should not be construed as a financial analysis   but rather as an advertisement. The author’s views and opinions   regarding the companies featured in reports are his own views and are   based on information that he has researched independently and has   received, which the author assumes to be reliable. Technical Traders   Ltd. and the author of this report do not guarantee the accuracy,   completeness, or usefulness of any content of this report, nor its   fitness for any particular purpose. Lastly, the author does not   guarantee that any of the companies mentioned in the reports will   perform as expected, and any comparisons made to other companies may not   be valid or come into effect.
© 2005-2018 http://www.MarketOracle.co.uk - The Market Oracle is a FREE Daily Financial Markets Analysis & Forecasting online   publication.
Only logged in users are allowed to post comments. Register/ Log in
The Market Oracle is a FREE Financial Markets Forecasting & Analysis web-site.
(c) 2005-2018 MarketOracle.co.uk (Market Oracle Ltd) - Market Oracle Ltd asserts copyright on all articles authored by our editorial team and all comments posted. Any and all information provided within the web-site, is for general information purposes only and Market Oracle Ltd do not warrant the accuracy, timeliness or suitability of any information provided on this site. nor is or shall be deemed to constitute, financial or any other advice or recommendation by us. and are also not meant to be investment advice or solicitation or recommendation to establish market positions. We do not give investment advice and our comments are an expression of opinion only and should not be construed in any manner whatsoever as recommendations to enter into a market position either stock, option, futures contract, bonds, commodity or any other financial instrument at any time. We recommend that independent professional advice is obtained before you make any investment or trading decisions. By using this site you agree to this sites Terms of Use.  From time to time we promote or endorse certain products / services that we believe are worthy of your time and attention. In return for that endorsement and only in the cases where you purchase directly though us may we be compensated by the producers of those products.


Original link: http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article61040.html
