12/13/17 AT 6:04 PM
A visual representation of the digital cryptocurrency bitcoin in London, Oct. 23, 2017. Photo: Dan Kitwood/Getty Images
Some sellers prefer credit over cash -- and others will only take bitcoin. That seems to be the case in Miami, where a seller has put up a listing for a penthouse condo, which can only be paid with bitcoin.
The apartment has a $33 bitcoin price, which is about $544,500. The listing for the place was put up five days ago.
The residence is the first property to be listed for sale where the seller is only accepting the cryptocurrency as a payment method, real-estate company Redfin told CNBC . Besides the Miami condo, Redfin said there are many other properties that are taking bitcoin, as well as other payment methods.
"It's the only one we could find where the seller was only accepting bitcoin, but when we searched our database of listings across the country we found about 75 properties in the listing remarks where the seller said they would accept bitcoin as payment," a Redfin spokesperson told CNBC. "This is interesting because it looks like it's $33 but it's 33 bitcoin. We noticed a lot are in south Florida and in California, where they mention bitcoin, though they're all around the country. We're going to be polling agents to see if buyers who came into bitcoin are going to be buying."
The person who ends up with the condo will have access to a jacuzzi, spa and gym. The condo was built in 2007 and is located in a 22-floor building.
Here’s a description of the bitcoin-only residence:
“Spectacular 1 bed/1.5 baths Penthouse unit with high ceilings, unobstructed Biscayne Bay view & Miami skyline. This amazing condo unit features euro-style kitchen, wood floors & impact windows. As boutique style condo, Platinum Condominium includes state of the art amenities such as fitness, infinity pool, Jacuzzi, spa, party room, conference room & front desk. Centrally located close to major roads, highways, Downtown, Brickell, Design District & Wynwood. “PRICE? ONLY ACEPTING BITCOIN”
Bitcoin passed the $15,000 threshold for the first time last week, a sharp increase after starting the year valued at just shy of $1,000. As of Wednesday evening, the cryptocurrency was worth $16,499.50.
Experts believe bitcoin will continue to rise next year. However, some say the crytocurrency is a bubble that will eventually pop .
​
Stay up to date with our daily newsletter
Related Stories


Original link: http://www.ibtimes.com/miami-seller-lists-condo-will-only-accept-bitcoin-payment-2628164
