Sun Savers
CASHING IN
Bitcoin investor who turned £2,700 into £80K in FOUR years – and then gave up her job to follow her fitness passion
Alessandra Sollberger invested in the cryptocurrency back in 2012 when they cost $9 dollars each. She used the profits to turn her hobby into her own business
By Hollie Borland, Digital Consumer Reporter
12th December 2017, 5:27 pm
Updated: 13th December 2017, 8:41 am
A FITNESS fan managed to turned her £2,700 Bitcoin investment into £80,000 over four years - and used the profits to quit her job and start her own health business.
Alessandra Sollberger, 29, bought 400 Bitcoin back in 2012 when they were worth about $9 US dollars (£6.75) each.
The 29-year-old Oxford graduate turned profits from her Bitcoin investment into her own company
By the end of the first year, she'd already made nine times their value and by 2015 she decided to cash in some of the cryptocurrency, giving her the first £20,000.
The 29-year-old former Goldman Sachs banker, who lives in London, used the money to fund turning her passion project - health and fitness - into a business.
Bitcoin is a digital currency where individual Bitcoins are created by computer code.
People use them to trade online and you store them in a virtual wallet on websites like Blockchain.
While the Oxford grad may have had a head start thanks to her background in finance but the savvy ex-banker decided to take her chances.
Alessandra Sellberger
Alessandra turned her passion for fitness and health into a business
Alessandra Sellberger
Alessandra is an ex Goldman Sachs banker and first heard about Bitcoin on tech blogs
"I was more interested in the underlying technology of Bitcoin rather than the actual currency," she told the Sun Online.
"Like the Blockchain system rather than having a central authority. And there's a whole network of technology that is used to verify the transaction, and there's no government controls. I wanted to be part of it."
After reading about it on tech blogs, she set about doing her research and ended up investing around £2,700 into the cryptocurrency.
In 2013, the price of one Bitcoin rose to triple figures so she took her chances and began cashing some of them in.
Around the same time, health and fitness was also becoming more mainstream so she used the first £20,000 to kick start her company.
Since then, she has used £80,000 of Bitcoin profit has finance her "superfood" business, Evermore Health.
What is Bitcoin?
BITCOIN is a virtual currency that was created in 2009 by an unknown computer whizz using the alias Satoshi Nakamoto.
Individual Bitcoins are created by computer code.
Transactions are made without middle men, so there are no transaction fees and no need to give your real name, making it popular to online drug dealers.
More businesses are beginning to accept them and in some parts of the world you can even buy pizza with Bitcoins.
You can set up a virtual wallet websites like  Blockchain  to store,  keep track and spend your digital money.
The record high for one Bitcoin of £8015 ($10,740) was reached on November 29 and basically sees the coin striking its mainstream moment.
The dramatic rise has been attributed to surging demand in China, where authorities warn it is used to channel money out of the country.
 
"I've always loved my sports and fitness. I used to teach windsurfing and snowboarding in my holidays at high school," she explained.
"It's a business I always wanted to do," she says, "and it's great that I actually had the funds to do it at that time.
"I only started selling some of them after hitting nine times my initial investment and up to 100 times that investment, so I don't regret it at all.
"There’s no other asset class out there that could have ever given a better return anyway.
"And I still have some Bitcoins - I still want to be part of the wave."
Today, one Bitcoin is worth around $17,100 - or £12,817 - which is 1,900 times what Alessandra originally bought hers for.
With Bitcoins now worth a small fortune and with a value that keeps creeping up, it might seem like a good time to invest with the hope of reaping returns worth a thousand times over.
But Alessandra doesn't think so.
"Right now, it looks like a huge bubble. Of course it could go on longer but it can also crash and they could be worth nothing.
"People looking to invest now should wait a few weeks and see how the bubble plays out.
"Bitcoin is very tricky. You need to really research it and understand it. Spend at least a week doing it finding out as much as you can about it - it's so important to understand it.
"If you see it going down, then I wouldn't do it. But if it still looks like it's going up and you still want to do it then you can but it's a risk.
Most read in money
The British fraudster executed in gang battle over savers' stolen millions
'I feel scammed and stupid'
Tube worker lost £16K from fake celeb Bitcoin con run by crims
Bit Con
Inside fake Bitcoin gangs using celeb ads on Facebook to fleece Brits out of £200m
bitcoin bust
Bitcoin price boom manipulated by 'mother of all crypto scams', say experts
BIT VOLATILE
Bitcoin price news – today’s value in GBP and USD amid crunch time for BTC
GEEK'S GOLD
What exactly is the cryptocurrency Bitcoin and how much is it worth today?
"You don't have to invest in a whole Bitcoin either - you can invest in 0.1 per cent if you like."
Bitcoin is widely used to trade online with only but some businesses are beginning to accept them. In some parts of the world you can even buy pizza with Bitcoins.


Original link: https://www.thesun.co.uk/money/5121891/bitcoin-investor-who-turned-2700-into-80k-in-four-years-and-then-gave-up-her-job-to-follow-her-fitness-passion/
