Health News
CRYPTO CREATOR
Who is Satoshi Nakamoto? Bitcoin creator whose identity is unknown but could be one of the richest people in the world
The author of a white paper about the cryptocurrency in 2008 is widely believed to be the shadowy person behind Bitcoin
By Mark Hodge
12th February 2018, 7:30 pm
Updated: 12th February 2018, 7:31 pm
THE inventor of Bitcoin remains a mystery as the volatile digital currency continues to enjoy wild fluctuations in value.
But while the identity of the fabled Satoshi Nakamoto - the author of a 2008 white paper describing the cryptocurrency - remains unconfirmed, the search to unmask him has a very colourful history indeed.
AFP or licensors
Bitcoin has taken the financial world by storm, but who is the creator of the cryptocurrency?
Who is Satoshi Nakamoto?
The mystery will take us from the Land of the Rising Sun all the way across the world to a small Californian town named Temple City and then back across the Pacific Ocean to an Australian doctor.
The now iconic white paper, which was published on networking P2P Foundation, said the elusive Nakamoto lived in Japan and was born in 1975.
But when the world's media thought they had found their Satoshi Nakamoto in 2014 - he was a computer engineer living in Temple City in Los Angeles County.
And while the Japanese-American man, named Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto, firmly denied he was the shadowy force behind the infamous cryptocurrency - the plot continued to thicken.
It soon emerged that computer scientist Hal Finney, who was the recipient of the first Bitcoin transaction, lived a "few blocks" from the seemingly-oblivious Nakamoto.
Reuters
Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto, pictured surrounded by reporters outside his home in Temple City, California, in May 2014
Forbes journalist Andy Greenberg attempted to interview Finney at his home - despite him battling terminal disease Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), which rendered the crypto-community enthusiast "locked" into his body and unable to speak or move his muscles.
Greenberg believes Finney, who appeared amused when the journalist asked if he knew Nakamoto, was either the ghostwriter for the Bitcoin creator or simply used his neighbour's name as a moniker.
AP:Associated Press
Nakamoto said he had never heard of Bitcoin
But that's not all. Finney also knew “decentralised currency enthusiast” and scientist Nick Szabo who penned a paper on "bit gold" way back in 1998 and was said to be a fan of pseudonyms.
Szabo also confirmed in 2011 that only he, Finney or Wei Dai - creator of Bitcoin precursor B-Money - could have been responsible for the digital currency.
In 2013, financial author Dominic Frisby suggested that Szabo penned the 2008 white paper and even appeared on television discussing his claims.
But Szabo emailed Frisby, writing: “Thanks for letting me know. I'm afraid you got it wrong doxing me as Satoshi, but I'm used to it.”
PA:Press Association
Craig Wright was reported to be the creator of Bitcoin
Who is Craig Wright?
The other best known Nakamoto-suspect is Australian computer scientist and businessman Craig Wright.
But unlike the other leading contenders, Wright actually claims he is Nakamoto and in 2016 provided technical "proof" to the BBC, The Economist and GQ.
This consisted of a demonstration of the verification process used in the very first Bitcoin transaction.
But The Economist claims "such demonstrations can be stage-managed” and reported Wright refused to make the proof public and to provide other assurances.
He then posted an apology on his blog stating that he no longer had the “courage” to continue the process of proving his identity.
Wright subsequently appeared in Netflix documentary Banking on Bitcoin and once again claimed to be Satoshi Nakamoto in what he said would be his final filmed interview.
Following the Wright speculation the Bitcoin Core Project – an open source project which “releases Bitcoin client software” – tweeted their own scepticism around the issue in May 2016.
The project posted: “There is currently no publicly available cryptographic proof that anyone in particular is Bitcoin's creator.”
More on bitcoin
The British fraudster executed in gang battle over savers' stolen millions
'I feel scammed and stupid'
Tube worker lost £16K from fake celeb Bitcoin con run by crims
Bit Con
Inside fake Bitcoin gangs using celeb ads on Facebook to fleece Brits out of £200m
bitcoin bust
Bitcoin price boom manipulated by 'mother of all crypto scams', say experts
BIT VOLATILE
Bitcoin price news – today’s value in GBP and USD amid crunch time for BTC
GEEK'S GOLD
What exactly is the cryptocurrency Bitcoin and how much is it worth today?
What is Satoshi Nakamoto's net worth?
If Nakamoto, which many experts believe is a pseudonym, does exist, he could be the world’s richest person considering how much the value of Bitcoin has skyrocketed.
It would all be dependent on how much Bitcoin Nakamoto has in their possession.
Man named Satoshi Nakamoto denies he is the creator of Bitcoin


Original link: https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/5037060/who-is-satoshi-nakamoto-bitcoin-creator-inventor-currency-mystery-identity/
