Bitcoin Trading Alert: Bitcoin Pauses – Will Appreciation Follow?
Currencies / Bitcoin Dec 16, 2017 - 05:01 AM GMT
By: Mike_McAra
Bitcoin  was directly mentioned during Janet Yellen’s last scheduled conference as Fed  chair. On CoinDesk, we read :
Yellen,  whose term in office expires in February, spoke to reporters today on a range  of topics. About thirty minutes into the presser, Yellen was asked about  bitcoin.
She  noted that, in the Fed's view, bitcoin "plays a very small role" in  the U.S. payment system, going on to explain:
"It  is not a stable store of value and it doesn't constitute legal tender. It is a  highly speculative asset and the Fed doesn't really play any role, any  regulatory role with respect to bitcoin other than assuring that banking  organizations that we do supervise are attentive that they're appropriately  managing any interactions they have with participants in that market, and  appropriately monitoring anti-money laundering [and] Bank Secrecy Act  responsibilities that they have."
Yellen  went on to answer a follow-up question on directives for banks regarding  bitcoin. She answered by saying that, to date, the Fed has not issued any  specific missives to banks on the subject.
The  fact that Bitcoin is getting mentioned during a Fed press conference shows that  the interest in the currency is now immense. Yellen’s answers were  characteristic of how central bankers are approaching digital currencies. It  seems that they don’t actively incorporate Bitcoin in their discussions, only  considering it occasionally. And Yellen gave the reason why this is the case:  central banks are not usually legally empowered to deal with Bitcoin, supervise  entities dealing with Bitcoin and so on. There are exceptions, particularly  where banks are involved but this is a rather marginal activity. Bitcoin is not  the topics of intense interest for the Fed or other central banks as the  Bitcoin market is actually not that huge, even in the wake of the recent  appreciation. Total Bitcoin market cap is below $300 billion, which is cosmic  for a digital currency, but at the same time not very impressive if one  considers that gold’s market cap is upward of $8 trillion. So, Bitcoin is  around 4% of gold’s market cap. Now you probably get why central banks and  other government agencies are not too worried about Bitcoin.
For  now, let’s focus on the charts.
On  BitStamp, we saw Bitcoin decline from the most recent all-time high. Does this  mean that the rally is over or that we’re just seeing a pause? Recall our  recent comments:
It  turns out that Bitcoin was still able to go up despite the already very strong  rally. The action, however, was followed by a relatively strong correction. At  the moment of writing these words (...), the correction is almost denied and  Bitcoin is actually at $16,000. This seems to set up a rather bullish picture  for the currency, at least for the short term.
We  haven’t seen too many developments in terms of price since our previous alert  was published. At the moment of writing these words (around 8:00a.m. ET),  Bitcoin is at the level of the previous local top (almost exactly at this  level). So far, we’ve seen a move above this level, a very small correction  below it and a pullback toward it. This looks more bullish than bearish but we  haven’t seen a decisive confirmation just yet.
On the long-term Bitfinex chart, we see the very strong move up and the very violent action  between $12,500 and $17,500. In our previous comments, we wrote:
A decisive move above $11,441 followed but Bitcoin left this  level in the rearview mirror, perhaps a bit too quickly, at least for now. It  is perhaps not so surprising to see Bitcoin appreciate around 50%, but once we  combine this with the fact that this occurred already pretty well into a  sizable rally, and the fact that mainstream media are picking up on the move,  we might have a bearish indication on our hands. In other words, we would want  to see at least a pause and quite possibly a more sizable correction before  considering hypothetical longs at the moment.
We have now possibly seen the mentioned  correction. Bitcoin corrected almost exactly 38.2% of the preceding move  ($12,676) and rebounded from this level. It might seem that the volume is  relatively weak today but it was stronger yesterday when the rebound took  place. All of the mentioned facts suggest that Bitcoin might be in for a move  higher. If we see a confirmed move above the recent top ($17,171), we might  consider hypothetical longs.
Like mentioned before, what we saw was a dance  around this level and Bitcoin is currently below this level. This is not  necessarily bearish as we are still very close but we haven’t seen enough of a  confirmation to suggest that the situation is bullish for the very short term.  It isn’t bearish either as the recent strong move down might just be a pause  within a bigger move up. At the moment, it seems that another move up might be  possible but we would prefer to see a confirmation.
If  you have enjoyed the above analysis and would like to receive free follow-ups,  we encourage you to sign up for our daily newsletter – it’s free and if you  don’t like it, you can unsubscribe with just 2 clicks. If you sign up today,  you’ll also get 7 days of free access to our premium daily Gold & Silver  Trading Alerts. Sign up now .
Regards,


Original link: http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article61024.html
