December 15, 2017, 2:00 AM EST
Bitcoin, always bitcoin.
Photographer: Dan Kitwood
This post originally appeared in Money Stuff .
"The days of bitcoin stunt journalism are over,"  writes Felix Salmon : "Today, if you write about bitcoin, you can't ethically own it, any more than you can own shares directly in companies you write about." This seems to be a consensus among journalists, but  I wonder about it  a little. If you don't have any bitcoins, doesn't that make you biased against it? After all, I do own stock in most of the public companies I write about, not "directly," but in the sense that they are in broad market indexes and most of my money is in broad market index funds. My exposure to the companies that I write about is not zero, it is instead a neutral amount: I own them in approximate proportion to their importance in the equity markets, and to my exposure to the equity markets. 
It is hard to know what the "neutral" allocation to an asset is, but it seems reasonably clear that for prominent mainstream financial assets -- Apple Inc. stock, say -- it is not zero. If you had an otherwise normal healthy market-cap-weighted allocation to a diversified portfolio of U.S. equities, but zero exposure to Apple stock, then that would look a lot like a bet against Apple. You would be "underweight Apple" -- almost like being short Apple -- and your portfolio would do better, relatively speaking, if Apple went down than if it went up. If Apple went up a lot, you would be sad, because you made what is in effect a conscious decision to bet against Apple by having less than the neutral amount of it in your portfolio. If you were a journalist writing about Apple, that might, to some fastidious observers, create the impression that you were biased against Apple.
On the other hand no one expects you to be long Beanie Babies or Dogecoin or Arkansas commercial real estate or penny stocks or whatever other niche investments some people are into, not even in proportion to their economic importance. It's normal to have a normal amount of normal assets; it's fine to have zero of niche assets. 
In the glory days of bitcoin stunt journalism -- when Kashmir Hill " lived on Bitcoin in 2013 " and bought a sushi dinner for 10 bitcoins (now $166,400) -- it was an extremely niche asset. Now ... I mean ... I don't know? It is still a little weird to own bitcoin, but if current trends continue -- a big if! -- then in a couple of years it will be a little weird not to. (At least in ETF form or whatever.) In round numbers the  total value of bitcoin represents about 1/10th of one percent of the  total wealth  in the world. If 20 percent of your net worth is in bitcoin you are probably overweight, but if zero percent is in bitcoin you might be a little underweight.
Disclosure: I don't own any bitcoin. And I feel a little guilty about it. 
Meanwhile in bitcoin futures,  Interactive Brokers  "will now accept orders for short sales of Cboe Futures Exchange (CFE) Bitcoin futures." You'll have to post margin of $40,000 per (one-bitcoin) contract -- over 200 percent -- to short the futures at Interactive Brokers. (A long futures bet requires $9,000 of margin, and that 200 percent margin is a concession: At one point Interactive Brokers Chairman Thomas Peterffy  said that  the margin to go short would be "in the neighbourhood of $100,000.") The arbitrage spread between spot bitcoin and bitcoin futures does seem to be compressing a bit -- as of 8:15 a.m. today it was about $485, or about 3 percent, down from $1,000+ when the futures  first started trading  -- so perhaps easier shorting is leading to more efficient trading.
On the other hand, here's a  Twitter thread  from a guy who tried to sell some bitcoin and found the process "so terrible, it's almost hilarious." Enough exchanges have withdrawal limits, delays, complicated verification processes, etc., that converting bitcoins into dollars is not as easy as it sounds. If you are doing the spot/futures arbitrage, which requires converting bitcoins into dollars at maturity to close out the arbitrage, then I hope you have a better way of doing that conversion.
If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link . Thanks! 
This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.
To contact the author of this story:
Matt Levine at mlevine51@bloomberg.net
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at jgreiff@bloomberg.net


Original link: https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-12-15/maybe-journalists-need-to-own-a-little-bitcoin
