By: Nicholas_Kitonyi
Whenever I look at the Bitcoin price chart,  it makes no sense and that means investors no longer move the market, but  rather, the market moves them. If the prices are skyrocketing, instead of sitting  back and looking at what’s behind the rally, they are now joining the bandwagon  without taking a second to think.
Of course, Warren Buffett would disagree  with them. In fact, he recently warned that bitcoin bubble is real. How long  this bubble will continue to balloon remains to be seen, but it is quite clear  that sooner rather than later, there will be a burst and those caught in the  blast will not like the impact on their income statements.
A  tumble in the price of bitcoin could result in huge losses for those riding the  price curve.
One of the reasons why most analysts expect  a massive crash or at least a correction in the price of bitcoin is because  unlike fiat currencies, bitcoin is not backed by gold reserves or a country’s  economic fundamentals.
The most realistic catalyst that bitcoin  investors could point out is that most online platforms and shopping malls are  now accepting various forms of cryptocurrencies as a method of payment.  Recognition and acceptance have given it some leverage to claim legitimacy but  without tangible value, it remains to be seen how bright the future of bitcoin  will be. For the skeptics, it’s pretty much another pipedream that will in the  end, turn the dreams of many into nightmares. So, could this bring a short-lived  dream of what has been one of the most promising  markets in the fintech industry to a premature end?
Not really. There is still some some hope.  Or is there? Maybe the real winner in this cryptocurrency menace, which is blockchain  technology could save the day. But how?
The blockchain technology has launched what  many are now calling the tokenized economy. Tokenization basically refers to  the way in which blockchain startups are using the technology to replace “sensitive  data with unique identification symbols that retain all the essential  information about the data without compromising its security.” This phenomenon  has allowed players in the cryptocurrency market to come up asset-backed crypto  coins that now have some real value attached to them.
And while these asset-backed cryptos are  yet to gain traction in the same fashion depicted by Bitcoin and Ethereum, some  investors are finding them to be more realistic investments as we head towards  uncharted waters in the market. GoldMint and OneGram are good examples of  gold-backed cryptocurrencies. Every coin has a certain value attached to them  relative to the value of gold bullion stored in various gold reserves.
Gold is already tradable across several  forex trading platforms, which means that there is nothing too original about  gold-backed cryptos. This is probably why the cryptocurrency market players  have gone a notch higher to introduce tokenized real estate and diamond-backed  cryptocurrencies in the tokenized economy. There are also suggestions of  tokenization of the construction industry as blockchain continues to disrupt  various industries in the market.
Bringing real estate into picture will have  many retail investors interested, but the prospect of trading diamonds in  tokens might be even more lucrative. To individual and retail investors,  diamonds are scarce and inaccessible investment products. This is partly  because of the security requirements associated with buying, transportation and  storage of diamonds. In addition, unlike is the case of gold where pricing can  be determined per ounce, calculating diamond prices can be a little  complicated for ordinary investors. There are so many filters to apply when  trying to determine the price of a specific diamond type, carat size and cut,  among others.
A  sample diamond price selection chart.
With tokenization, investors can easily buy  tokens of different diamond types and carat sizes to come up with well-balanced  mini diamond portfolios. The best part about this is that, they wouldn’t be  required to buy at least a full stone for each diamond type. They can buy a  token of each, which would be cheaper than buying full stone.
In return, this will result in increased  liquidation in the diamond market. Soon, diamond-backed cryptos could be traded  on leading forex trading platforms as we have noticed recently with bitcoin and  Ethereum.
However, given the progress made by bitcoin  and the hype that surrounds it, it is hard to see any cryptocurrency toppling  it in the foreseeable future. Bitcoin has already earned its place amongst  investors as many perceive it to be the future of the currency market.
And while there are genuine critics about  bitcoin’s legitimacy in the market, the increasing adoption of blockchain and  its various applications on trading instruments appear to have bought it a new  lease on life. Gold and diamond backed cryptocurrencies will certainly appeal  to investors that seek some level of tangible value, but even they cannot  really claim to have intrinsic value. Interesting times lie ahead in the  cryptocurrency market.
By Nicholas Kitonyi
Copyright © 2017 Nicholas Kitonyi - All Rights Reserved Disclaimer:     The   above is a matter of opinion provided for general information         purposes only and is not intended as investment advice. Information   and     analysis   above are derived from sources and utilising methods     believed   to be reliable,   but we cannot accept responsibility for   any   losses   you may incur as a result of   this analysis. Individuals     should consult   with their personal financial   advisors.
© 2005-2018 http://www.MarketOracle.co.uk - The Market Oracle is a FREE Daily Financial Markets Analysis & Forecasting online   publication.
Only logged in users are allowed to post comments. Register/ Log in
The Market Oracle is a FREE Financial Markets Forecasting & Analysis web-site.
(c) 2005-2018 MarketOracle.co.uk (Market Oracle Ltd) - Market Oracle Ltd asserts copyright on all articles authored by our editorial team and all comments posted. Any and all information provided within the web-site, is for general information purposes only and Market Oracle Ltd do not warrant the accuracy, timeliness or suitability of any information provided on this site. nor is or shall be deemed to constitute, financial or any other advice or recommendation by us. and are also not meant to be investment advice or solicitation or recommendation to establish market positions. We do not give investment advice and our comments are an expression of opinion only and should not be construed in any manner whatsoever as recommendations to enter into a market position either stock, option, futures contract, bonds, commodity or any other financial instrument at any time. We recommend that independent professional advice is obtained before you make any investment or trading decisions. By using this site you agree to this sites Terms of Use.  From time to time we promote or endorse certain products / services that we believe are worthy of your time and attention. In return for that endorsement and only in the cases where you purchase directly though us may we be compensated by the producers of those products.


Original link: http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article60994.html
