Before diving in, big institutions need clear regulatory rules, safe places to store their assets and exchanges that don’t crash or get hacked, said Paul Veradittakit, a partner at cryptocurrency hedge fund Pantera Capital.
Coinbase Custody
In traditional finance, custody banks like
State Street Corp. hold securities, keep records and provide other services for investment advisers. A lack of similar offerings in the cryptocurrency world has kept many institutions on the sidelines.
Coinbase offices in San Francisco.
Photographer: Michael Short/Bloomberg
Coinbase has offered a solution: crypto custodial services, slated to roll out next year. Called
Coinbase Custody , it’ll be available to investors with at least $10 million in deposits.
State Street has considered expanding into digital-currency custody, according to Hu Liang, the bank’s former head of emerging technologies. That could give Coinbase a formidable competitor.
The new product line has doubters. One of them is Morgan Hill, principal at cryptocurrency hedge fund AxionV.
Circle of Trust
“If you’re a huge hedge fund and you have almost a billion or a half billion in assets, are you really going to want to trust your money with Coinbase?” Hill said. “I like their concept. I just don’t know how attractive it’s going to be to everyone.”
Ari Paul, chief investment officer of BlockTower Capital Advisors, disagreed, arguing that Coinbase’s special expertise in cryptocurrency makes it an ideal custodian.
Coinbase employees
Photographer: Michael Short/Bloomberg
“They’ve been the largest hacking target in the world for a long time and they’ve proven they can handle it,” Paul said. “And they’ve built strong relationships with regulators.”
When it comes to regulation, the industry is rife with gray areas, making it tough to navigate.
IRS Probe
“There’s no such thing as a compliant crypto company,” said Marco Santori, a partner at Cooley LLP who leads the law firm’s fintech practice. “We’re doing the best we can with limited resources and limited direction from the courts and limited direction from regulators.”
Last month, Coinbase
lost a bid to block an Internal Revenue Service investigation into whether some of its customers failed to report their gains. The company has 30 days to decide whether to appeal the Nov. 29 ruling.
Coinbase also drew scrutiny from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission after a June
flash crash on its GDAX exchange erased most of the value of ether, the second-biggest cryptocurrency, before it recovered. Mike Lempres, the chief legal and risk officer, said Coinbase continues to talk with the regulator, which is focused on what role margin-trading might have played in the plunge. The company at the time allowed customers to use borrowed money to make bigger bets.
Margin Risk
The CFTC is also looking into whether customers were experienced enough to take on the risk of margin-trading, Lempres said. To qualify, they were supposed to have met at least one of several
requirements under federal law. For instance, individuals were supposed to invest more than $5 million in financial markets and use the margin accounts to hedge risks.
Three traders who lost money margin-trading on GDAX told Bloomberg they didn’t meet the requirement. One said he’d used half the gift money from his wedding to buy ether before the crash.
Coinbase reimbursed users for their losses and discontinued margin-trading after the incident. The company wasn’t legally obligated to double-check on whether customers met the requirements. Coinbase said it’s working to bring back an improved margin-trading program.
Developing ties with banks is one of the biggest challenges. Coinbase doesn’t publicly disclose its banking relationships, but a person familiar with the matter said the company is partnering with Cross River Bank, Metropolitan Bank and Silvergate Bank in the U.S.
“We’re going to be successful not because the price goes from $10,000 to $100,000,” said Dan Romero, who runs Coinbase’s trading platform for individuals. “It’s because we have millions of customers who trust us.”
SHARE THIS ARTICLE


Original link: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-12-15/coinbase-wants-wall-street-to-resolve-its-bitcoin-trust-issues
