RBA governor Philip Lowe says bitcoin is a 'speculative mania'
Share
RBA governor Philip Lowe said bitcoin was a "speculative mania" that was unlikely to become an attractive method of making everyday payments.
Sergio Dionisio
Vesna Poljak
Reserve Bank governor Philip Lowe said bitcoin was a "speculative mania" that was unlikely to become an everyday method for making payments, although it would be attractive to criminals.
In a rare speech on banking technology on Wednesday, Dr Lowe launched an attack on bitcoin , whose price has soared dramatically in recent months and is currently trading above $US17,000 as speculators have piled in to the cryptocurrency. 
Dr Lowe said it would be unlikely that bitcoin was adopted for mainstream payments for a range of reasons.
These include its price being "very volatile, the number of payments that can currently be handled is very low, there are governance problems, the transaction cost involved in making a payment with bitcoin is very high and the estimates of the electricity used in the process of mining the coins are staggering".
Bitcoin has climbed close to $US18,000 in the past month.
"When thought of purely as a payment instrument, it seems more likely to be attractive to those who want to make transactions in the black or illegal economy, rather than everyday transactions," he said.
Advertisement
View all announcements
"So the current fascination with these currencies feels more like a speculative mania than it has to do with their use as an efficient and convenient form of electronic payment."
Bitcoin can be seen as both a digital currency for transacting, and a commodity akin to digital gold. Many investors have been buying bitcoin in the hope of quick profits as its price sky-rockets, and to gain exposure to 'initial coin offerings' and other cryto-assets linked to it. Bitcoin futures contracts launched this week in the US . 
Bitcoin was created to circumvent the control of the payments and monetary systems by banks and central banks, but groups including the World Economic Forum have been advising central banks not to be passive in their approach to cryptocurrencies  given the seismic shifts in how trust is being build in the new digital economy. .
The cost is 'extraordinary'
In questions from the audience at the Australian Payment Summit in Sydney, Dr Lowe said the actual costs associated with bitcoin made it prohibitive for everyday payments.
"You can do that now," Dr Lowe said in response to a question about the ability to purchase coffee with Bitcoin.
"But the truth is, when you look at the actual costs associated with making a payment in Bitcoin, it costs more than the cup of coffee. If people in this audience want to use Bitcoin to make payments, they're perfectly free to do that in this country.
"I suggest the cost of doing that is extraordinary and do you really want to hold the value that you're using, and make payments with, in something that price fluctuates 20 per cent in a day?"
eAUD?
Central banks around the world are also thinking about cryptocurrencies because creators and users of private blockchains - versions of the technology which validates bitcoin transactions - say they would prefer to move value using a digital version of a fiat currency rather than a cryptocurrency like bitcoin.  
Mr Lowe also said that while the Reserve Bank might also consider issuing a digital version of the Australian dollar to facilitate payments on private blockchains, a convincing case for the move, which involves complex operational and policy questions, has yet to be made.
Dr Lowe said it remained an "open question" whether a digital version of the Australian dollar could help private blockchains integrate payments.
Start-ups AgriDigital, FlashFX and Othera, and industry group FinTech Australia, had asked the RBA to consider the move to provide a more attractive option than using bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies to move a payment.
"It is certainly possible that this type of system could lead to more efficient, lower-cost business processes and payments," Dr Lowe said.
"My working hypothesis here is that such a case could develop, although we need to work through a range of complex operational and policy questions."
"Whether a strong case for the development of these types of systems emerges remains an open question. We need to better understand the potential efficiencies for private business and why it would be preferable for such a settlement system to be provided by the central bank, rather than the private sector; why privately issued tokens or files could not do the job."
'No immediate plans'
In considering whether to issue an eAUD for private payments systems, the RBA would also want to know why payments efficiencies could not be achieved using existing exchange settlement accounts that commercial banks hold with the RBA, or the "new payments platform", a real-time system that will begin operating in February.
"We would also need to understand whether and how risk in the financial system would change as a result of such a system. It remains unclear which way this could go," he said.
Dr Lowe also set out a range of "working hypotheses" the RBA is applying to its consideration of digital currencies.
Even through the use of cash and ATMs is declining, the bank has "no immediate plans to issue an electronic form of Australian dollar banknotes, but we are continuing to look at the pros and cons," Dr Lowe said.
One of the cons is that it could make commercial banks more vulnerable to runs during a crisis, as depositors sought to exchange commercial bank deposits for the RBA-issued eAUDs, which would reduce financial stability.
There is nothing to prevent a tokenised "eAUDs" being issued by the private sector but Dr Lowe warned there are significant dangers with privately issued fiat money and suggested "if there were to be an electronic form of banknotes that was widely used by the community, it is probably better and more likely for it to be issued by the central bank".
But the new real time payments network the NPP means the RBA considers "there is likely to be little additional benefit from electronic banknotes".
However, if an electronic form of Australian dollar banknotes was to become a commonly used payment method, "it would probably best be issued by the RBA and distributed by financial institutions, just as physical banknotes are today," he added.
Even though the the use of cash and ATM withdrawals is declining, the use of credit and debit cards is rising and Australians have enthusiastically adopted 'tap-and-go' payments, "it is likely that banknotes will continue to play an important role in the Australian payments landscape for many years to come," the governor said.
RBA won't compete for deposits
Dr Lowe also dismissed the recent suggestion from former ASIC chairman Greg Medcraft that bank accounts could become unnecessary because central banks will create digital currencies and allow customers to hold deposits directly with them .
"To be clear, we see no case for doing this," Dr Lowe said.
"If we did go down this route, the RBA would find itself in direct competition with the private banking sector, both in terms of deposits and payment services. In doing so, the nature of commercial banking as we know it today would be reshaped.
"The RBA could find itself not just as the nation's central bank, but as a type of large commercial bank as well. This is not a direction in which we want to head."
Warning on fees
The Reserve Bank governor appeared to put the banks and payments processors on notice, saying that the cost for many businesses of electronic payments was still "too high".
"If the banking system does not offer low cost payment methods, electronic payment methods to all Australians, other people will come in and do it.
"This is going to be a challenge for us all over the coming years, how can the financial payments industry offer merchants low-cost, electronic payments? If they can't do that, other forms of electronic payment will emerge."
He continued, "the idea that kind of you can charge merchants 2 or 3 per cent on electronic payments, you might be able to do that today, it might be a great business model for financial institutions. I suspect some years down the track, that model isn't going to work," alluding to the experience of other countries.
 


Original link: http://www.afr.com/technology/rba-governor-philip-lowe-says-bitcoin-is-a-speculative-mania-20171212-h02zf0
