by Alexandra Sayapina on Thursday, December 14th, 2017 8:15pm UTC Leave a comment
Photo: Sirin Labs
The company, famous for its secure smartphones, may become one of the most funded ICOs while raising money for Blockchain Smartphone and PC.
Tweet
Some ICOs fail, some are successful, but some ICOs are just incredible – and that is the case of Sirin Labs. All you need to prove the breakthrough of the company is two numbers: more than $100M in less than 24 hours. And that is only the start of the story.
Sirin Labs is a company known as the developer of SOLARIN, an ultra-secure mobile phone. That project attracted lots of attention. This year the talented team decided to make one more step toward security of personal gadgets and create the first blockchain smartphone . And according to the results of ICO – their new project is to become a great success.
Sirin Labs achieved its goals for contributions in less than a day of ICO.  The company stated three goals before starting the crowdsale. Raising $25M would mean that Sirin Labs are to start working on SIRIN OS. This system is designed to support blockchain technologies, adding to your smartphone such functions as crypto wallet and encrypted communications.
Getting $50M would mean that the company also starts working on FINNEY Smartphone. This blockchain-enabled gadget is to become the first of the kind. Anyway, the result of the ICO exceeds $75M – the minimum level for Sirin Labs to add FINNEY PC to the list of the projects on which they are going to work. That means that we are about to see the first blockchain “all-in-one” PC.
All of the products are expected not only to use the blockchain technology, but to have other innovative features. Sirin Labs is creating its own Cyber Protection suite, outstanding performance is guaranteed by the top technologies used in the projects. The estimated price for FINNEY Smartphone is $999, FINNEY PC is even less costly – the estimated price is $799.
Moshe Hogeg, Founder and Co-CEO of SIRIN LABS, said: “At SIRIN LABS, our mission is to bridge the gap between the mass market and Blockchain technology and we believe FINNEY devices are a big step in the right direction. By combining a secure open source OS with an elite user-experience, fee-less token transfers and Blockchain enabled Dapps, FINNEY will speed the mass adoption of the technology.”
Sirin Labs became the hero of the day, however, not only the tech enthusiasts believe in the bright prospects of the company. This week the blockchain could become a great topic of conversations for football fans, because Lionel Messy , widely regarded as the greatest player in history, became an ambassador of Sirin Labs.
In his post on Facebook he said: “I am usually busy trying to decentralize defences and after digging deeper into Blockchain and decentralized systems, I’m excited to join SIRIN LABS as an ambassador to make blockchain more friendly with their upcoming operating system for smartphones!”
Sirin Labs are creating the product that can bring blockchain not only to our minds, but to our pockets. It is the very beginning of the new chapter of the history for this company. And Sirin Labs crowdsale still has 11 days to go.
You May Also Like


Original link: https://www.coinspeaker.com/2017/12/14/sirin-labs-raises-100m-blockchain-smartphone-first-day-ico/
