A Mumbai Boy Dies While Taking A Selfie, Surely It's Time To Take This Problem Seriously 542 SHARES
One person, identified as Narender alias Sonu Dahiya, was arrested in Rithala, on Wednesday, on charges of defrauding thousands of people.
“The arrested accused, Narender, is a resident of Sonipat in Haryana. Police said that with Narender’s arrest, the role of seven to eight more persons is under the radar of the police team," Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Alok Kumar said.
Police said the gang lured people to investing in a newly-launched cryptocurrency, called "Kashhcoin".
KashhCoin
According to Arun Kumar, the original complainant in the case, who was cheated to the tune of Rs 13.90 lakh by the gang, he bought the newly launched cryptocurrency at a rate of Rs 3.50 per coin and was promised a huge profit.
During the investigation, some more complainants were received.
The investigators also found that the accused had organised seminars in different places including Nepal, Mumbai, Gujarat, Chandigarh, Raipur and Nagpur for business promotion, looking for potential victims.
How Kashhcoin gang operated
Delhi police said Narender who had a multi-level marketing background used the same tactics for his Kashhcoin scheme. The gang had formed a website and using social media platforms to approach investors. 
Once an 'investor' purchased a virtual currency for Rs 3.50 per coin, they had to register in the company's website, Kashhcoin.net.
KashhCoin
A simple glance at the website gives users insights to how their investment is safe and how big it could grow.
By their own admission, the maximum amount of KASHH Coin is 2,515,020,000 (Two Billion, Five Hundrеd Fifteen Million Twenty Thousand) and unlike money issued by government, KASHH Coin саnnоt bе affected bу inflation аnd аrе impossible tо counterfeit.
The value of KASHH Coin depends on factors like usability, demand-аnd-supply, and this is the sole reason that cryptocurrencies аrе nоt tied tо аnу раrtiсulаr country оr central bank. The value can’t be affected by either inflation or counterfeit.
AFP
If one study these claims carefully, these are similar to what other cryptocurrencies offer and there was hardly anything to be suspicious about.
It is worthwhile to note that under the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India , cryptocurrencies are still legal in India and the RBI has repeatedly warned investors against them. 


Original link: https://www.indiatimes.com/news/india/bitcoin-gang-that-duped-15-000-people-for-rs-50-crore-busted-one-held-this-is-how-it-worked-335671.html
