News teaser
Entrepreneur and venture capitalist Steven Nerayoff has joined the RCN global lending project as a lead advisor. Through his venture capital firms Maple Ventures and Alchemist Ventures, Nerayoff founded several blockchain-based companies. However, he is perhaps best known as the co-creator and token sale architect of the Ethereum project from its infancy.
Nerayoff is now part of the RCN team, whose core members are the same talent behind Ripio, the crypto company that was founded in 2013 as one of the Latin America’s first Bitcoin / blockchain ventures. Asked about his decision to join RCN, Nerayoff stated:
I’ve been following RCN quite closely and I’m glad to become an advisor for this great project, driven by a solid team that has been fighting towards financial inclusion for many years.
RCN is a peer-to-peer credit protocol based on cosigned smart contracts that connect lenders and borrowers anywhere in the world and in any currency through the use of RCN tokens, the platform’s native cryptocurrency. Having successfully raised over $40 million during their recent token sale, the RCN network has the potential to democratize digital economy by increasing credit access for borrowers, eliminating the risk of default for lenders, and reducing asymmetric information between network agents.
RCN SVP and board member David Garcia expressed his pleasure at having Nerayoff on board:
As he has done with other successful crypto projects such as Factom, Lisk, ZCash and Bancor, Steve [Nerayoff] will bring in lots of expertise and experience to help us expand financial inclusion worldwide.
RCN has partnered with several notable Asian-based crypto projects, including the Exchange Union trading network and popular crypto exchange Huobi in an effort to create a truly global lending ecosystem. Working in conjunction with its partners, RCN has the potential to offer consumers a better credit alternative than anything else currently available today.
One of RCN’s most recent alliances, the Kyber Network decentralized exchange, will help the company focus on Asia’s burgeoning blockchain space, which includes China, Hong Kong, Vietnam, Philippines, Taiwan, Singapore, South Korea, India, and Indonesia.
About RCN
RCN is a global credit network protocol based on cosigned smart contracts that connect borrowers and lenders anywhere in the world and on any currency. The smart contracts connect agents with information about borrowers’ identities so that they can analyze borrowers’ credit risk impartially, thus standardizing credit lending through blockchain technology. By removing the middlemen and reducing traditional banking brokerage costs and management fees, RCN aims to allow better conditions for both sides.
For more information about RCN please visit their website:  ripiocredit.network  or Telegram chat:  https://t.me/RCNtalk .
What is your reaction to news of RCN’s latest advisory board member? What will Nerayoff bring to the project? Let us know in the comments below.
Images courtesy of RCN Network


Original link: http://bitcoinist.com/ethereum-co-creator-steven-nerayoff-joins-rcn-advisory-board-as-their-global-lending-ecosystem-expands-towards-asia/
