— Dr Craig S Wright (@ProfFaustus) December 10, 2017
The questions about the team working on the upcoming improvements and the exact time, when a public roadmap and testnet would be available, Wright left without comments and promised to reveal this information later.
In his following tweets, the businessman added that the team working on Bitcoin Cash targets mostly at spreading the cryptocurrency throughout the world in order to get more people to use it and drive up BCH’s price.
Concerning the roadmap, whether it is well planned or not, and if any growth could be expected, Wright concisely stated:
“It is well planned. There are many things coming. We are interested in delivering cash to the world. Not a bank settlement system. So, it is all about whether you believe in PayPal 1.5 in BTC or global cash in BCH.”
Craig Wright became one of the most controversial and discussed figures in crypto world after he claimed to be the real identity of the anonymous creator of Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto.
In 2016 Wright managed to prove this fact to three media organizations – BBC, the Economist and the London Review of Books – by digitally signing messages using some of the earliest Bitcoin cryptographic keys, which are linked to Bitcoin blocks mined by Nakamoto himself.
But after a few months, the businessman declared that he had  lost the courage to offer more definitive proof, leaving even more doubts among the members of the bitcoin community.
Later on, Wright has filed more than 50 patent applications in Britain through Antigua-registered EITC Holdings Ltd and is currently working on filing a number of patents related to bitcoin and the blockchain technology.
In spite of Craig Wright’s controversial reputation, his comments, related to cryptocurrency world, still deserve to be considered. No one can deny that Bitcoin Cash has demonstrated a significant take off in recent months. At press time, the cryptocurrency is already traded at $1 886.34, according to CoinMarketCap .
The ongoing competition between Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash is rather interesting to be observed. Each cryptocurrency has its own pros and cons, so it is hard to distinguish, which one is better. The main question is which one will have the majority of support. For now, without any doubt, Bitcoin is on the top, but according to Craig Wright and some other experts, the situation is very likely to change in the next year or so if all the expected developments will be implemented successfully.
You May Also Like


Original link: https://www.coinspeaker.com/2017/12/14/self-proclaimed-bitcoin-creator-craig-wright-believes-2018-will-year-bitcoin-cash/
