Share
Surveys launched over reports of unaccounted money being invested in virtual currency
On Wednesday, the bitcoin value zoomed past $17,000 and Rs 11 lakh (mid-market rates). The abnormal surge in the price of bitcoins over the last one year has left its strong footprints in
Bengaluru
as well. For the record, the city has one of the fastest-growing bitcoin markets and emerging start-ups, seizing opportunities to make hay.
And finally, this unregulated industry which had raised serious concerns among established banks and banking regulatory authorities has come under the enforcement agencies’ lens. On Wednesday,
Income Tax
department’s investigation directorate, Bengaluru circle, covered nine prominent bitcoin exchanges across major cities looking for alleged tax evasion and parking of unaccounted money. The surveys were done as per Section 133A of the Income Tax Act to collect information on investors, and transactions undertaken by them.
“Armed with financial data, officials carried out survey operations on Bangalore-based Unocoin and ThroughBit; Zebpay, Koinex, Coinome at Mumbai; Coinsecure, New Delhi; BTCXIndia, Hyderabad and BuyUcoin in New Delhi and Gaziabad. The operations were simultaneously launched following a detailed information gathering excercise on the bitcoin market, collection of incriminating documents that pointed towards unaccounted investments made by high net-worth individuals,’’ sources told Bangalore Mirror.
Read Also:
Panic over 'malware' attack of ATMs
Bitcoin is a decentralised, paperless crypto currency invented in 2009. It was trading at $28 in 2012 and at some point in 2013, one bitcoin was worth Rs 28,000. Post the US presidential elections in November 2016, it rose to Rs 2,91,822. Though unregulated in India, this virtual currency market saw a huge growth and traction after 8/11 DeMo — demonetisation of high currency tenders last year and bitcoin exchanges captured more than one million active crypto-currency users.
Among the nine exchanges surveyed, the biggest is Zebpay which is supposed to have made fortunes in the last one year — reportedly from Rs 1,200 crore to Rs 10,000 crore. Bengaluru’s Unocoin owned by Sathvik Vishwanath is also one of India’s fastest growing bitcoin company having three lakh registered users and its office is in Rajajinagar. ThroughBit, co-founded by Abhishek Gopal operates out of Residency Road. Over the years, several traders in the city accept bitcoin including restaurants and shops.
However, over the years, this digital currency has emerged as a safe haven for investment of black money as the sector remains unregulated, income is not taxed and transactions are not monitored. This has not escaped the Central Board of Direct Taxes’ gaze.
Considering the anonymity maintained by the bitcoin companies, investors are encouraged to park their unaccounted incomes in such crypto currencies. “Several bitcoin exchanges operating in the country have emerged as crucial source of evidence to establish the investors and traders’ identities, bank accounts and the transactions made by them. This survey operation is aimed at collecting information on the investors and their transactions. In the light of surge in bitcoin market, the Union finance ministry had constituted an inter-disciplinary committee to take stock of virtual currency industry in India and come out with regulations,” an official source added.
According to
Tobby Simon
of Synergia Foundation, a think-tank that works on real-time primary information to pursue high-quality research, the sudden surge in the value of bitcoins could be partly because of the tracts of unaccounted money being routed into the crypto currency market where it is difficult to trace the transactions. “We feel that fear of linking Aadhaar to the bank accounts could also prompt individuals to park money and derisk their investments. There is increased worry among depositors concerning the security of their deposits in banks and the proposed
Resolution and Deposit Insurance Bill
which is to be tabled in the winter session of Parliament. If the bill is passed, it will empowered to order the amalgamation, merger , liquidation and acquisition of any bank,
insurance
companies and non –financial banking companies if it feels that the institution carries an imminent or critical risk to its viability,” says Simon, who has studied bitcoin market extensively.
Read Also:


Original link: http://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/bitcoin-deals-in-bengaluru-under-taxmans-lens/articleshow/62058189.cms?
