by Maryam Manzoor
Speculation Surrounding New Coins Being Added to Coinbase Draws Plenty of Attention in the Cryptocurrency Community
If anything can truly take a coin mainstream, it is a Coinbase listing (ask Litecoin holders), since the exchange is among the most popular and widely used in the world – particularly in North America. While up until now the exchange has only listed Bitcoin (BTC/USD) , Ether (ETH/USD) and Litecoin (LTC/USD) , that just might change in 2018, and could mean big things for the alt coin space.
In a recent interview with CNBC, Asiff Hirji – president and COO of Coinbase – while remaining non-committal on the timeframe of new coin listings on the exchange, had this to offer:
“I think you should expect over time there will be more and more assets listed.”
However, Hirji’s statement is nothing new. Last month, Coinbase CEO and co-founder Brian Armstrong sparked speculation regarding the prospect of new coin listings on the exchange during an interview with the same channel:
“The ones that are the most exciting to us that we have on the platform today are Bitcoin , Ethereum and Litecoin , but there’s many more that are going to be added to the platform in 2018 and I think this is going to be a really exciting space for all kinds of institutional investors to make money.”
With Bitcoin ’s record-breaking run this month taking it to over $18,000, not only has it managed to attract institutional investors, it has also hugely benefitted the altcoin market, as newcomers who find Bitcoin ’s price too steep are starting to look for more affordable alternatives.
While there is no official word on the coins that have a chance at being listed, speculation about possible listings on Coinbase has increased following the massive price spikes that multiple alt coins have recently seen. Discussions are rife on social media platforms such as Reddit and Twitter, with every large-cap coin’s community anticipating new Coinbase listings, the most hyped among these being Ripple (XRP/USD) , DASH (DASH/USD) , and Monero (XMR/USD) .
DASH , which went from approximately $12 at the start of the year to an astounding $900 this week, has pegged itself as a currency with multiple use-cases, and a strong business development and marketing unit promoting adoption and global accessibility. Discussions have intensified among the DASH community online, with some pointing out that DASH CEO Ryan Taylor has, on multiple occasions, stated that the cryptocurrency will be added to a major U.S. exchange before the end of 2017.
Monero has also been able to cement its place among prominent alt coins, with a 2400% increase since the start of the year, a market cap of more than $4 billion and its unique selling point – privacy and anonymity. While the online community is hopeful for Monero ’s addition to the exchange, regulation may prove to be the biggest hurdle (given how Monero transactions are nearly impossible to track), particularly after Coinbase was recently ordered to hand over user data to the IRS.
Ripple, which has not seen the kind of price surges DASH and Monero have, is still a solid contender on account of its corporate and financial backing, and the partnerships its team has managed to build. In addition, Ripple’s close to 400% surge this week is partly due to the community’s anticipation of an impending Coinbase listing.
While these are quite possibly the strongest candidates, among other top twenty coins such as NEO (NEO/USD) , NEM (XEM/USD) , and Bitcoin Cash (BCH/USD) , the decision ultimately rests with Coinbase’s management at the end of the day.
Although the user base for Coinbase has grown tremendously in the latter part of 2017, surpassing that of brokerage Charles Schwab, there are certain issues the exchange needs to iron out in order to improve performance and ensure a smooth and seamless experience for customers – especially before adding new coin listings.
Firstly, the exchange is known for suffering from outages during peak trading sessions and periods of high demand, as was the case multiple times during Bitcoin ’s recent surges. In addition, Ethereum and Litecoin trading were also temporarily disabled during both of their recent breakouts.
Coinbase has released a blog post which warns users to anticipate outages and assures customers that the exchange is working to “increase trading capacity” and “maintain availability of (their) service.” However, Coinbase will need to work fast to outgrow these issues before it can open its doors to a wider investor base seeking new and varied options.
Secondly, Coinbase has yet to complete its SegWit integration, which is a major concern given Bitcoin ’s ever-increasing fees and transaction delays. SegWit is a solution for Bitcoin ’s transaction issues, and if implemented, can significantly reduce transaction fees.
However, while Coinbase announced its plans to integrate SegWit at the start of this month, it has been non-committal in regards to the time frame and provided no progress updates, even though smaller teams have managed to implement SegWit in a matter of days.


Original link: https://investfeededge.com/speculation-surrounding-new-coins-added-coinbase-draws-plenty-attention-cryptocurrency-community/
