Bitcoin bubble may burst in 2018, says crypto expert
Bitcoin bubble may burst in 2018, says crypto expert
| TNN | Dec 15, 2017, 08:04 IST
Representative Image
HYDERABAD: India’s first crypto-token marketplace BTCX-India promoter Mupparaju Siva Kameswara Rao , who stopped trading in Bitcoins , predicts a fall in value after it gets to Chicago Mercantile Exchange for futures trading from December 18.
BCTXs of Kondapur-based S Capital Solutions Private Limited, was surveyed by Income Tax department on Thursday to track investors in unregulated crypto currency. Now, BCTXs is selling only Ripples and Ether, another form of cryptocurrency and stopped trading Bitcoins as rates shot up. Speaking to TOI, Siva Kameswara Rao said, “We traded in Bitcoins between 2014 and February 2017. We have around 8,000 customers with us who earlier traded Bitcoins and now are with Ripples and Ether. We stopped trading when Bitcoin rate touched ₹1lakh. Our customers couldn’t afford. Today, the rate in the www. bitcoinrates.in for each Bitcoin is ₹13.36 lakh. Ether was ₹600 then and now gone up to ₹40,000. Ripples have touched ₹30. Ripples are backed by Google , and it is a protocol accepted by Yes Bank and Axis Bank . Bitcoin is a decentralised currency, and this is centralized currency.”
Rao said, “Value of Bitcoins show it is a threat to the financial system. Silver coins also rose to $110 and crashed to $5. Bitcoin bubble may also burst. On December 18, CME is going to launch futures trading. So far, there is no selling and buying in the market. CME is a traditional exchange and sales will trigger price crash.”
Rao said, “Ripples is US-based and 58 banks across world have been dealing with it. We have done all transactions through banks,” Zebay based in Ahmedabad is trading in Bitcoins, Coinsecure in Bengaluru and Delhi and Unocoin are also trading in Bitcoins.
Get latest news & live updates on the go on your pc with News App . Download The Times of India news app for your device. Read more City news in English and other languages.
RELATED


Original link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/hyderabad/bitcoin-bubble-may-burst-in-2018-says-crypto-expert/articleshow/62077442.cms
