job title, keywords or company
city, state, or zip
Circle 63 reviews - Boston, MA
Circle is a global internet finance company, built on blockchain technology, powered by crypto assets, and dedicated to helping people everywhere create and share value.
We’ve already made sending money around the world free and easy using blockchain technology with Circle Pay. With Circle Invest, we’re expanding our offerings with a cryptocurrency investment product, enabling anyone to buy and sell crypto assets. Through Circle Trade, we’re market makers for the top crypto coins and offer OTC trading services. In March 2018, Circle acquired Poloniex, one of the world's leading token marketplaces.
Circle’s engineering team enables us to do that at scale, supporting customers all over the world and processing millions of transactions across multiple currencies in a reliable, secure and fast way.
What you'll work on
Working with a team of expert developers to develop world-class crypto assets platform
Designing and implementing different blockchain technologies into Circle’s internal platform
Establishing and maintaining the environments in which blockchain solutions can be implemented, including development, testing, and production environments
Maintain a continuous integration pipeline for the development and testing of applications
What you'll bring
Interest in blockchain development and crypto-currencies
Interest in impacting the way money moves between people
Experienced in building large-scale, secured, distributed systems
Experience working closely with internal teams to identify requirements and iterate on solutions
Experience with one or more of these languages (Java, Scala, Go, Javascript, Solidity)
Strong understanding of Blockchain concepts
Circle was founded in 2013 by internet entrepreneurs Jeremy Allaire and Sean Neville. We’re backed by $250 million from investors including Jim Breyer (Facebook), Goldman Sachs, IDG Capital (Baidu, Tencent), General Catalyst (AirBnB, Snapchat), Accel Partners, and Bitmain, with offices in Boston, New York, San Francisco, Dublin, London and Hong Kong.
Check us out at circle.com and download Circle Pay & Circle Invest for iOS and Android today.
We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at Circle. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status.
About your personal information
We respect your privacy and are committed to protecting your personal information. Please refer to our candidate privacy notice here. for more information on how we will be using your personal information. By submitting your application, you agree that you have read and understood the candidate privacy notice.


Original link: https://www.indeed.com/viewjob?jk=2acf25a5cd2a3398&tk=1cga7d3c2bqclae2&from=serp&vjs=3 
