job title, keywords or company
city, state, or zip
Cisco 3,937 reviews - San Jose, CA
Contract
WHAT YOU'LL DO
You will be part of Cisco’s Corporate Strategy Office (CSO) working on ground breaking innovation, cultivating and capturing new opportunities at lightning speed. You will join an internal startup team within the Corporate Strategic Innovation Group (CSIG) developing an Enterprise Blockchain solution. You will work through the whole software development process with a lightweight Agile approach and use the latest tools and processes with a strong focus on software quality.
WHO YOU'LL WORK WITH
Cisco’s Corporate Strategic Innovation Group (CSIG) is a high-energy, motivated team that shares a passion for all-things innovation. This includes our Innovation Centers, which are located around the world, where disruptive talent comes together to explore, discover and develop groundbreaking solutions to tackle customers’ toughest challenges. CSIG is responsible for the exploration of emerging technologies, which includes Blockchain, drones, cognitive computing, AR / VR and other areas of interest.
WHO YOU ARE
You are experienced, confident and hands-on with relevant full life cycle architecture and software development capabilities. You are a passionate and hands-on architect, software lead/developer who can join on the sprint that takes us from prototype to MVP.
YOUR RESPONSIBILITIES WILL INCLUDE:
Architect, design, and develop a state of the art Enterprise Blockchain platform as part of an internal start-up team.
Research technical approaches and drive decisions on platform component
Be responsible for analysis, design and implementation of core Enterprise Blockchain software
Develop beautiful, maintainable code, with test driven CI/CD development
Work in an agile environment, drive architecture and design reviews and ensure secure software development
Design and optimize systems for scalability and high availability
Build an extensible and modular system that can be adapted to meet a wide range of requirements
OUR REQUIREMENTS FOR THIS ROLE:
15 years experience in system and software architecture delivering scalable system software
Experience in systems software development in one or more of the following: database internals, transaction management, operating systems, or distributed systems
Experience with distributed systems and protocol design
Experience with RDBMS, NoSQL or distributed databases
Expertise in cloud native, micro-services based system software development
Strong programming experience in Golang, C, or C++
Broad and deep technical knowledge and passion for learning new technologies rapidly and independently.
Should have broad technical foundation and understand network, operating system, database and application software
Deep understanding of Algorithms and Data Structures
Understanding of the cryptographic principles underpinning Blockchain technologies
Knowledge of standard methodologies for web-scale infrastructure
A Master’s degree in Computer Science or equivalent work experience
Bonus: Experience working with, or knowledge of blockchain solutions
Bonus: Smart contract development experience
PROFESSIONAL SKILLS:
Ability to think and operate as a great teammate
Extremely strong interpersonal and communication skills (written and verbal) with the ability to assess and clearly communicate business value and technical and project risk
Able to learn complex technologies quickly, work in a fast-paced, team-driven environment
Must be able to multi-task, manage details and keep sight of overall objectives
WHY CISCO
At Cisco, each person brings their unique talents to work as a team and make a difference.
Yes, our technology changes the way the world works, lives, plays and learns, but our edge comes from our people.
We connect everything – people, process, data and things – and we use those connections to change our world for the better.
We innovate everywhere - From launching a new era of networking that adapts, learns and protects, to building Cisco Services that accelerate businesses and business results. Our technology powers entertainment, retail, healthcare, education and more – from Smart Cities to your everyday devices.
We benefit everyone - We do all of this while striving for a culture that empowers every person to be the difference, at work and in our communities.
Colorful hair? Don’t care. Tattoos? Show off your ink. Like polka dots? That’s cool. Pop culture geek? Many of us are. Be you, with us! #WeAreCisco
LI-AG1


Original link: https://www.indeed.com/viewjob?jk=47cfcebbdb47a549&tk=1cgd5s9o01fkk45c&from=serp&vjs=3
