job title, keywords or company
city, state, or zip
New Alchemy 2 reviews - Seattle, WA
New Alchemy is an advisory and investment group specializing in tokenization and blockchain technology. One of only a handful of companies able to offer a full spectrum of guidance from tactical technical execution to high-level theoretical modeling in this blue ocean field, New Alchemy provides technology, token game theory, security audits, and token launch marketing, strategy, and facilitation to the most innovative companies and projects worldwide.
If all this means nothing to you, don’t worry. It doesn’t have to… yet. Our team is highly-motivated, flexible, smart, and galvanized by the idea that we’re playing in a never-before-explored intersection of technology, finance, and economics. We’re disrupting the way the world works, and we’re stoked by that. We want new team members that feel the same way: people who are experts in becoming experts, early adopters, technophiles, kingdom-builders. In other words, we’re much more interested in whether you have the drive and the determination to develop world-class mastery in a groundbreaking field than whether you come preloaded with knowledge. Intrigued?
YOU WILL
Collaborate on an agile multi-discipline engineering team to build blockchain products services.
Build high quality software in Go / Solidity on a daily basis.
Analyze / Test your software and others so it’s appropriate to deploy onto the blockchain once.
Build tools that enable business folks to operate the business.
Blaze new trails and give back to the community. The blockchain ecosystem is at a formative stage with tools and design patterns.
Stay curious and learn constantly. Grow as an engineer.
Educate everyone around you. Blockchain is new. We all need to learn.
Deep savvy with awk, sed, unix internals and crypto.
Requirements
Minimum of 3+ years professional experience.
Proven successful systems engineer in lower level language: C, Python or Go.
Solid coding / design chops.
Fluent with best practices in engineering, security, and design.
Take pride in working on projects to successful completion involving a wide variety of technologies and systems.
Benefits
We offer 99% of the cost of medical premiums paid for you and your family, dental, vision benefits and an substantial quarterly bonus program.


Original link: https://www.indeed.com/viewjob?jk=eff79d64c34f3fcd&q=Blockchain+Engineer&l=United+States&tk=1cgd5s9o01fkk45c&from=web&vjs=3
