job title, keywords or company
city, state, or zip
Director of Blockchain Engineering
OTC Exchange Network - Fremont, CA
OTC Exchange Network (“OTCXN”) is looking for the best and brightest leader who can be both fantastic team players and individual contributors to join our family. We want rock-stars without rock-star attitudes, newbies who aren’t afraid to take charge, people who dream big and can share a path to their vision, but most importantly, we want balanced people.
Why Join OTCXN
You will be working with a team that will have a profound impact at the crossroads of blockchain and capital markets infrastructure. Building world-class disruptive technologies requires vision, persistence, innovation, and a deep belief that nothing is impossible. We are looking for smart people who are not risk adverse and want to build something that will be universally recognized as a world first. We aspire to provide a working environment, culture and leadership team that foster continuous improvement on a daily basis, offering transparency, ownership and integrity. Join our proven and successful management team in executing one of the most ambitious global projects in the blockchain space.
Does this sound like you? * You have a strong passion for blockchain and cryptocurrencies.
You have a strong desire to do something that has never been done before but still solve real problems for the largest markets in the world.
You want to deliver a real product with a real revenue model.
You want to make a difference and don't want to be just another cog in the wheel.
You are very open to learning from others and when given the opportunity, always willing to jump in and give it your all.
You're the type of person that genuinely prefers to help out where others are weak and you're also always open to accepting help with your own weaknesses. You understand no one is perfect.
Required Qualifications
At least 5 years of hands-on professional experience in core Java.
Hands-on experience with developing on at least one backend blockchain codebase, whether proprietary (e.g., Chain) or open source (e.g., Hyperledger, Corda) -- not just building apps on top.
Strong understanding of the cryptographic principles and data dependencies underpinning blockchain technologies.
Experience and understanding of major consensus protocols, asymmetric encryption, Merkle trees, hash functions, key-value database
Experience and understanding of transaction scripting and smart contracts, especially Bitcoin style conditionalized transactions
Understanding of key areas of Blockchain research including data privacy, confidential transactions, side chains and pegging, sharding, lightning, and other scaling methodologies
Strong sense of ownership, passion to build quality products for massive scale in collaborative, agile environment and excitement to learn
Preferred Additional Qualifications
A degree in Computer Science / Mathematics or equivalent work experience in a field utilizing the same subject matter.
3+ years of professional C/C++ experience.
5+ years of development experience developing production grade, multi-threaded, enterprise client/server software using Java stack.
Experience with extending core Blockchain functionality, such as changes to Bitcoin or Ethereum VM.
Experience contributing to the architecture, design, and implementation of Blockchain technologies like Chain, Corda and Hyperledger.
Understanding of microservices architecture.
Recognized expertise in blockchain applications as evidenced by industry participation, publications and/or awards.
Detailed and verifiable understanding of blockchain architectures including detailed knowledge of how various blockchain platforms differ.
Experience with various P2P communication protocols.
Experience in building distributed databases, networking protocols, or large-scale transaction systems.
Experience developing large scale, highly available distributed systems and protocol design.
Strong knowledge of data structures, algorithms, operating systems, and distributed systems fundamentals.
Strong understanding of databases, NoSQL systems, storage and distributed persistence technologies.
Experience with some of the following: concurrency and synchronization, common IPC/RPC methods and patterns, queuing patterns and pipeline design, messaging systems and patterns, virtual memory management.
What You’ll Be Doing
Direct a team of 8-12 blockchain developers
Work closely with company leadership to define roadmap and extend an existing custom blockchain implementation in Java.
Write high caliber code on a daily basis to satisfy time sensitive production product development as well as R&D projects.
Collaborate with CTO, blockchain engineers and math wizards and undertake R&D projects to create novel hybrid solutions to solve problems while maintaining extreme performance requirements without trading off guarantees blockchain provides.
Help develop blockchain product specs.
Collaboratively define blockchain systems architecture and best practices.
Document best practices and act as a knowledgeable resource for blockchain engineering and problem-solving.
Bonus Points For :


Original link: https://www.indeed.com/viewjob?jk=6b6834d2751c4216&tk=1cgd8dgth1fkk3cr&from=serp&vjs=3
