job title, keywords or company
city, state, or zip
Circle 63 reviews - Boston, MA
Circle is a global internet finance company, built on blockchain technology, powered by crypto assets, and dedicated to helping people everywhere create and share value.
We’ve already made sending money around the world free and easy using blockchain technology with Circle Pay. With Circle Invest, we’re expanding our offerings with a cryptocurrency investment product, enabling anyone to buy and sell crypto assets. Through Circle Trade, we’re market makers for the top crypto coins and offer OTC trading services. In March 2018, Circle acquired Poloniex, one of the world's leading token marketplaces.
As a Risk Engineer at Circle, you’re part of the team creating the rules engine framework and productizing machine learning models to build a world-class real-time automated risk evaluation system. We work across Data Science, Product, Platform and Compliance to manage risk exposure while delivering the best possible experience to our customers.
What you'll work on
A small productive team in an agile environment, gaining real-world experience building and deploying secure, production-scale services for consumer facing products
New, efficient ways to write pre-optimization algorithms for loading data science models that predict future decisions
Develop a rules engine framework that allows Risk Analysts and compliance to monitor and control transactions en masse in real time
Integrate with third party vendors in a resilient fail-safe environment to enhance or supplement decision making
Calculate or pre-calculate various derived features in a scalable near-real time fashion
Design, develop, peer review and test a wide range of components including REST APIs, statistical modeling methods, machine learning algorithms, message queues and asynchronous processes, SQL and NoSQL data models
Work closely with our Data Science, Product and Platform teams to manage risk exposure and perform fraud analysis and prevention while delivering the best possible customer experience
Work closely with DevOps to deploy platform features to production
What you'll bring to Circle
4+ years professional Java experience, including strong relational/transactional SQL experience
Deployed production quality Software as a Service
Algorithm development and optimization guru
Clear communication skills
Broad and diverse background (the broader the better)
Financial/Risk domain specific knowledge definitely not required
Nice to have
Machine learning algorithms experience
Familiarity with Javascript, specifically with node and angular
Circle was founded in 2013 by internet entrepreneurs Jeremy Allaire and Sean Neville. We’re backed by $250 million from investors including Jim Breyer (Facebook), Goldman Sachs, IDG Capital (Baidu, Tencent), General Catalyst (AirBnB, Snapchat), Accel Partners, and Bitmain, with offices in Boston, New York, San Francisco, Dublin, London and Hong Kong.
Check us out at circle.com and download Circle Pay & Circle Invest for iOS and Android today.
We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at Circle. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status.
About your personal information
We respect your privacy and are committed to protecting your personal information. Please refer to our candidate privacy notice here. for more information on how we will be using your personal information. By submitting your application, you agree that you have read and understood the candidate privacy notice.


Original link: https://www.indeed.com/viewjob?jk=9f5ccacc5c8ce83b&tk=1cga7pbtsbqclbq0&from=serp&vjs=3
