job title, keywords or company
city, state, or zip
Circle 63 reviews - Boston, MA
Circle is a global internet finance company, built on blockchain technology, powered by crypto assets, and dedicated to helping people everywhere create and share value.
We’ve already made sending money around the world free and easy using blockchain technology with Circle Pay. With Circle Invest, we’re expanding our offerings with a cryptocurrency investment product, enabling anyone to buy and sell crypto assets. Through Circle Trade, we’re market makers for the top crypto coins and offer OTC trading services. In March 2018, Circle acquired Poloniex, one of the world's leading token marketplaces.
As part of the product engineering team, you’ll create and iterate upon product features that will shape the future of Circle’s product. You will join a team of engineers and designers that share ideas and code that help us to build apps that your friends and family love to use.
What you'll work on
Create, own, and iterate upon product features that shape the future of the web product
Improve UI for our users to have better insight into their own interactions including messages and transactions with others
Collaborate with a fun, passionate team to help craft elegant solutions to problems using the latest technologies
Gain exposure to several product lines within the company
What you’ll bring to Circle
8+ years experience building/running an application in production using modern web technology
Expertise working with React.js
Experience with CSS, HTML & ES6
Basic SQL experience
Insatiable desire to learn and improve your craft
Past management or lead experience
Enjoy building appealing pages that customers love and crave
Real passion for writing readable, maintainable and well-tested code
Interest in payments, fintech, blockchain or cryptocurrency
Circle was founded in 2013 by internet entrepreneurs Jeremy Allaire and Sean Neville. We’re backed by $250 million from investors including Jim Breyer (Facebook), Goldman Sachs, IDG Capital (Baidu, Tencent), General Catalyst (AirBnB, Snapchat), Accel Partners, and Bitmain, with offices in Boston, New York, San Francisco, Dublin, London and Hong Kong.
Check us out at circle.com and download Circle Pay & Circle Invest for iOS and Android today.
We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at Circle. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status.
About your personal information
We respect your privacy and are committed to protecting your personal information. Please refer to our candidate privacy notice here. for more information on how we will be using your personal information. By submitting your application, you agree that you have read and understood the candidate privacy notice.


Original link: https://www.indeed.com/viewjob?jk=f80bc81d8a3a4ed6&tk=1cga8cd3pbqcl8u9&from=serp&vjs=3
