job title, keywords or company
city, state, or zip
Circle Internet Financial - Boston, MA
Boston, USA
Circle is a global internet finance company, built on blockchain technology, powered by crypto assets, and dedicated to helping people everywhere create and share value.
We’ve already made sending money around the world free and easy using blockchain technology with Circle Pay. With Circle Invest, we’re expanding our offerings with a cryptocurrency investment product, enabling anyone to buy and sell crypto assets. Through Circle Trade, we’re market makers for the top crypto coins and offer OTC trading services. In March 2018, Circle acquired Poloniex, one of the world's leading token marketplaces.
As part of the product engineering team, you’ll create and iterate upon product features that will shape the future of Circle’s product. You will join a team of engineers and designers that share ideas and code that help us build apps that your friends and family love to use.
This position has the option to be in Boston or New York
What you'll work on
Take the lead in developing product features from initial specs and API development, to the public release and announcement
Design and implement the APIs that Circle’s iOS, Android and Web clients run on
Collaborate with a fun, passionate team to help craft solutions to problems using the latest technologies
Learn more about Circle’s business domains while instructing others about development and design
What you'll bring to Circle
10+ years of professional experience building/running an application in production using modern web technologies (Ruby on Rails, Flask or Node.js)
Experience working with SQL and NodeJS is desired
Desire to build and maintain the backbone of our system which powers our iOS, Android and Web clients
Real passion for writing beautiful, functional and well tested code
Interest in cryptocurrency, blockchain technology or social payments
Circle was founded in 2013 by internet entrepreneurs Jeremy Allaire and Sean Neville. We’re backed by $250 million from investors including Jim Breyer (Facebook), Goldman Sachs, IDG Capital (Baidu, Tencent), General Catalyst (AirBnB, Snapchat), Accel Partners, and Bitmain, with offices in Boston, New York, San Francisco, Dublin, London and Hong Kong.
Check us out at circle.com and download Circle Pay & Circle Invest for iOS and Android today.
We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at Circle. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status.
About your personal information
We respect your privacy and are committed to protecting your personal information. Please refer to our candidate privacy notice here. for more information on how we will be using your personal information. By submitting your application, you agree that you have read and understood the candidate privacy notice.


Original link: https://www.indeed.com/viewjob?jk=51afd8ec87fe0a9a&tk=1cga80qrgbqcldlp&from=serp&vjs=3
