job title, keywords or company
city, state, or zip
Circle 63 reviews - Boston, MA
Circle is a global internet finance company, built on blockchain technology, powered by crypto assets, and dedicated to helping people everywhere create and share value.
We’ve already made sending money around the world free and easy using blockchain technology with Circle Pay. With Circle Invest, we’re expanding our offerings with a cryptocurrency investment product, enabling anyone to buy and sell crypto assets. Through Circle Trade, we’re market makers for the top crypto coins and offer OTC trading services. In March 2018, Circle acquired Poloniex, one of the world's leading token marketplaces.
As a Data Engineer at Circle, you’ll work closely with the Data Science team productizing machine learning solutions and developing the scalable data pipelines that support these solutions.
Working in either Boston or San Francisco, you’ll have the opportunity to significantly impact internal data consumption and decision-making (risk and compliance, growth, and marketing) as well as our customer experience.
Projects we are working on (and you may work on, too)
Productize machine learning models and build a world-class automated evaluation system to manage risk exposure while delivering the best possible experience to our customers
Design, build, and implement scalable streaming data pipelines and ETL frameworks to increase data access and decrease analysis and decision times across the organization
Build an open transaction protocol where users can send money and exchange value that utilizes both new and traditional technologies to deliver value the fastest and cheapest way possible
Leverage blockchain technology in a new transaction framework so that Financial Institutions an exchange value and associated metadata in a compliant manner.
You'll also
Own software throughout the entire development life-cycle
Share ideas to improve our product and processes, make decisions that have significant impact, and provide feedback so we can continue to get better
Develop your skills, collaborate across teams and continue to learn.
What you'll bring to Circle
Experience writing high quality code in Python plus another OOP language (Java, Scala, C++, Go, etc)
Experience working with RDBM systems, particularly familiarity with SQL
3+ years experience building distributed solutions in Spark, MapReduce or other MPP system with associated data models and datastores (e.g., Redshift, Cassandra, HBase, Parquet)
Production development of event-based applications using frameworks such as Kinesis, Kafka, Spark Streaming, or similar
Familiarity with machine learning techniques, continuous deployment pipelines and tools, and AWS technology stack a plus
Desire to work across internal teams to identify requirements and iterate on solutions
Debug complex production issues across various levels of the tech stack
Interest in impacting the way money moves between people
Circle was founded in 2013 by internet entrepreneurs Jeremy Allaire and Sean Neville. We’re backed by $250 million from investors including Jim Breyer (Facebook), Goldman Sachs, IDG Capital (Baidu, Tencent), General Catalyst (AirBnB, Snapchat), Accel Partners, and Bitmain, with offices in Boston, New York, San Francisco, Dublin, London and Hong Kong.
Check us out at circle.com and download Circle Pay & Circle Invest for iOS and Android today.
We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at Circle. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status.
About your personal information
We respect your privacy and are committed to protecting your personal information. Please refer to our candidate privacy notice here. for more information on how we will be using your personal information. By submitting your application, you agree that you have read and understood the candidate privacy notice.


Original link: https://www.indeed.com/viewjob?jk=4236fc68e7ebd9ea&tk=1cga80qrgbqcldlp&from=serp&vjs=3
