at Averon (View all jobs)
Anywhere
Would you like to build global infrastructure to handle billions of events a day for hundreds of millions of people?  Do you want a job where you stop bad guys and make the world a safer place?
Averon is looking for entrepreneurial SRE’s to build out highly scalable, highly reliable infrastructure. Reporting to the CTO the SRE will work with the Development and Product teams to ensure a dynamic, robust, and scalable  infrastructure to support our platform.
We’re building out next generation platform so this a greenfield opportunity. You can build it right from the start (and not have your time sapped with a bunch of snowflake legacy servers). We highly prioritize reliability over time to market so you can take your time to do it right. We are a startup, so expect the work to be 75% SRE, and 25% devops.
Don’t worry, we’re engineers, not some corporate HR department so we’re not holding our breath for the unrealistic swiss army knife of SRE who has 7 years of experience in technology that’s only been around for 3. If you’ve got some of the skills we list and would like to pick up new ones, send us your resume. First and foremost we value brains and ability to learn.
Some of our tech stack: linux (CentOS? Ubuntu? help us finalize a flavor), docker, ELK, mongo, monitoring (icinga or nagios? what do you like), and orchestration (puppet? chef? Ansible? again greenfield activity)
Oh, and we've closed over $10M and have customers, so you get the upside of greenfield with the stability of funding and revenue.
 
Architect and run a high availability, global scale infrastructure
Work with the tech and product teams to evaluate, deploy and support new technologies
Linux server administration
Network administration (routing, switches, firewall, VPN, DNS, etc.)
Backup and monitoring (safety first!)
Documentation (you can never have too much!)
Strategic selection of new technologies
Vendor management and selection
Continue to stay current on new technologies
Kick ass and chew gum (gum chewing optional)
Requirements:
At least 6 years experience with highly-available enterprise servers (we don’t care if your prior company used the title SRE, devops, or sys admin--we look at abilities not titles)
Experience with orchestration (e.g. Puppet, Chef, Salt, Ansible)
Experience with tools like terraform, docker, and k8s (kubernetes)
Experience with Linux shell scripting, automation, troubleshooting, and performance tuning
Experience with one or more of MySQL, Mongo (or other NoSQL), HDFS
Experience with big data tools (e.g. Hadoop, Kafka, Storm, Spark)
Experience with icinga, nagios, PTRG, Sentry or other monitoring tools
Experience with web servers (e.g. nginx, Apache) and application frameworks (ideally django)
Experience with AWS, Azure, GCE, or other clouds
Additional Pluses:
Work history or knowledge of cybersecurity
Work history or knowledge of the telecom industry
Why You'll Love It:
How often do you get to stop bad guys?
It's a greenfield opportunity you can help lead
Once we have an automated system going and we're just monitoring there will be significant time to do R&D and work on passion SRE/devops projects
We believe in continuous learning
 
Candidates only. No recruiters or Third Parties.
Apply for this Job


Original link: https://boards.greenhouse.io/averon/jobs/4009062002
