Apply for this job
Axoni develops novel blockchain solutions while focusing on the capital markets industry. We have demonstrated in various production implementations that our blockchain software can serve multiple asset classes and use cases at the world’s most advanced financial institutions. Join us in our mission to further strengthen and scale our system and develop new blockchain solutions. We’re excited to have you become part of our high-performing team of software engineers.
Axoni’s Site Reliability Engineers are responsible for automating the deployment, configuration, and monitoring of our blockchain infrastructure in cloud and non-cloud environments.
As an SRE, you’ll be responsible for supporting our products across the stack, from client-facing infrastructure to core backend functionality to database optimization. You’ll be deeply involved in the design of large-scale distributed systems on our internal networks and remote client architectures. Deep-diving into optimization across various parts of the system will make you an effective member of the SRE team. You love solving problems, and working in close collaboration with the team across all areas of the software stack.
Our software stack includes containerized and bare-metal technology across *nix and Windows operating systems.  We’re looking for candidates who love to learn and are able to adapt quickly.
Relevant Skills and Experience
Experience troubleshooting issues on a remote distributed system
Experience with automation and configuration management tools (Ansible, Salt, Chef, Puppet)
Experience with continuous integration and deployment tools (Jenkins, Concourse, Travis CI, Gitlab CI, Semaphore CI)
Ability to design and implementation SRE best practices (monitoring, integration, and analysis of related tools)
Good knowledge of building and deploying container services and installation packages such as Docker, rkt, RPM
Security best practices for cloud configurations and deployments
Best practices for facilitating Agile and Test Driven Development
Experience with at least one of the following scripting languages: Bash, PowerShell, Python, Ruby, JavaScript/Node.js
Experience with at least one of the following compiled languages: Java, C++, Go
Strong communication skills and a collaborative team member
Benefits
Health, dental, and vision insurance
401K plan
Catered team lunch and snacks
Robust work stations


Original link: https://jobs.lever.co/axoni/521bae67-206d-4347-a7b0-cb962df8bead
