VP of Engineering
Job description
Chainalysis builds trust in blockchains between people, businesses, and governments. Our Blockchain Intelligence Platform powers our compliance and investigation software for the world’s top institutions.  With offices in NY, D.C., and Copenhagen, Chainalysis is global and backed by Benchmark and other leading names in venture capital.
The Chainalysis Engineering team has members in New York, Washington D.C., Copenhagen as well as engineers working remote in other European countries. The engineering team builds large scale real time big data systems as well as web based analytics tools used by some of the world’s leading institutions.
 
We are currently looking for a VP of Engineering to be a hands-on leader, ready to scale our people, culture, technology, development process, and business. We believe there is much more we can do to improve our existing offering, expand the market, and craft innovative solutions to improve the user experience for our customers. You will be at the center of making that happen.
Responsibilities:
Work directly with the CEO, CTO, VP of Product and other key team members to support the platform roadmap and ensure its implementation throughout the development life cycle
Grow the engineering team beyond the current size and help attract and train gifted and passionate engineering talents
Coach team members on coding practices and in making business-driven decisions
Define objectives and track results for team members in a supportive, motivating, and fact driven way.
Emphasize quality and scalability of the engineering product while optimizing processes.
Collaborate with product teams to understand and translate requirements, ensuring specifications and architecture design meet broader technical strategic goals
Identify, research, and propose strategic initiatives in a way that balances both the short and long term company goals
The VP of Engineering will be located in the Chainalysis New York office working every day with inspiring colleagues locally as well as remote.
Requirements
The ideal candidate should be an experienced, hands-on technology leader, with expertise in taking engineering teams from early growth through mature organizations, as well as a consistent track record of developing platforms that scale both technologically and operationally.
To be successful, you have experience in the following areas:
BS in Computer Science, Math, or a related technical field
10+ years of software development and architecture experience
Experience working in SaaS environment
Experience acting as a technical lead, ability to mentor and lead other software engineers
Experience building and operating large scale systems
Broad knowledge of programming languages and software architecture and design
Mastery of relational databases is required and Big Data exposure is a plus
Experience in blockchain and cryptocurrencies is a plus
Application of agile methodologies to iteratively improve the customer experience and optimize engineering productivity
Use of fact-based analyses to deliver recommendations to senior management about decisions related to managing the software development process and team
Directly managed engineering teams, led recruiting, hiring, retention, and training process for engineers
Strong understanding of QA processes and methodologies
Extremely organized, with a firm grasp on your calendar and priorities
We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at our company. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status.


Original link: https://chainalysis.recruitee.com/o/vp-of-engineering
