Signed, Sealed, Delivered
Careers
Cobalt is at the forefront of the changing landscape within FX Post Trade processing, delivering a private peer-to-peer network that significantly reduces post-trade cost and risk for financial market participants. As we continue to expand, so does our talent acquisition requirements. Cobalt is looking for bright and ambitious people to join our team.
Marketing Associate
This is a hands on Marketing Associate role. You will be responsible for brand and marketing campaigns (internally and externally), online, print media and third-party programs. You will be passionate, dynamic, adaptive, quick to understand the business and reimagine our approach to B2B marketing within the FinTech startup industry.  Willing and wanting to shake things up.
Primary Responsibilities
Support the Founders and Team to build, help define and execute the marketing / brand strategy and campaign plans in line with business objectives
Contribute to the design and own the implementation of marketing campaigns (PR, social media, events, third party programs, design etc.)
Ensure internal marketing and awareness building for objectives and campaigns
Creation and management of sales and marketing content and collateral – mainly for web and electronic usage
Ownership of a branded content and a social media plan
Analysing potential strategic partner relationships for company marketing
Work closely with the sales and product teams to ensure brand awareness and accurate messaging internally and to clients
Management of website and / any other ‘owned’ digital channels
Qualifications & Skills
Experience
Experience at a start-up, technology company or agency servicing either of the former in a similar role
A degree or relevant experience in marketing, communications or project management (though not essential)
Knowledge of Google Analytics, LinkedIn, Twitter, MailChimp, Salesforce and web-based marketing tools
At least 3/4 years’ experience in a similar role
Proven writing ability
Any other relevant professional qualifications would be advantageous
Comfortable working in a fast pace environment
Excellent Microsoft Office skills
Interest in FinTech and FX
Experience focussed on B2B marketing, ideally within a start-up, smaller growing business or agency
The ability to grasp new concepts quickly
Impeccable verbal and written communication skills
Excellent time and project management skills with the desire to see projects through from concept to delivery
Strong knowledge of all digital marketing channels
Proven performance working independently to ambitious deadlines
Project management skills including the management of 3rd party vendors
You have the ability to get things done in a fast-paced environment, you learn quickly and have a can-do approach
Desired Skills
Experience working in Fintech, FX, blockchain or financial services
Understanding of SEO
Able to create e-mail templates and campaigns
Creative mindset with an understanding of how to communicate visually and bring ideas to life in a variety of mediums
Location & Travel
Minimal to no travel required
 Support Desk Team Lead – L1/L2
 As a member of the Cobalt Support Desk candidates will be primarily responsible with ensuring the smooth day to day running of the Cobalt product suite.
Primary Responsibilities
Monitoring and Support of the Cobalt product suite.
Management and guidance of junior team members.
First and second line support of application, server and network stack.
Service desk management, including but not limited to:
First point of contact via phone, email or self-service help service desk.
Incident, problem and release management.
Escalation and communication with internal and external stakeholders.
Ensuring that SLA’s are met.
 First point of escalation.
Monitoring of Cobalt application suite.
Service desk management.
Issue/Change/Request management from conception to resolution.
Application support.
Liaison between internal and external stakeholders.
Identify and report system bugs to product owners.
Identify and report system enhancements to product owners.
Assist clients during onboarding process.
Any other ad hoc work as may be required by the Head of Support.
Qualifications & Skills
Computer Science related degree preferred
At least 4 years’ experience in a similar role
Any other relevant professional qualifications would be advantageous
Essential Skills
Previous team lead / desk lead experience.
Knowledge of FX post trade processing
Knowledge of the FIX protocol
Experience using UNIX
Proficiency in written and spoken English
Excellent attention to detail and the ability to follow and give direction
Self-starter and motivated to succeed
Proven ability to be a team player, while retaining ability to work independently with little or no supervision
Excellent interpersonal, written and verbal communication skills
Aptitude for learning new software and IT applications
Client facing skills
Ability to apply a logical and analytical approach to work
Ability to manage time, prioritise tasks and work under tight deadlines
Excellent multi-tasking skills
Lateral thinking to identify improvements in processes
Ability to effectively prioritise
Previous experience of KX dashboard-based UI / System.
Previous Cisco / Network support experience.
Previous Linux System Administration experience.
Location & Travel
Minimal to no travel required
Tester
The testing resource has to be able to thrive in a start-up environment. Upon joining the team the Tester will be primarily responsible for owning and driving the processes and execution of testing the Cobalt platforms. In addition, this role will be responsible to support the Head of Product with outlining test scenarios and ensuring product delivery. This is an exciting role for anyone looking to expand their skills sets and join a vibrant and exciting team.
Primary Responsibilities
Opportunity to own a new test function in a new and exciting company
Testing all aspects of the Cobalt system from the GUI to various APIs (in and out)
Build test plans, automating where possible
Aid in the documentation and analysis of product enhancements
Working closely with product and development teams
Role Requirements
Design and creation of automation framework
Stress and performance testing


Original link: http://www.cobaltdl.com/careers/?job=5#toggle-id-12-closed
