All jobs → Senior Mobile Engineer
Senior Mobile Engineer
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia · Engineering · EN-M-SE
Description
CoinJar is one of Australia's fastest growing startups and a trusted market leader in the digital currency industry. We build consumer-friendly products with strong focus on security, scalability and usability.
Our Engineering Team is a product-oriented cross-functional team with capabilities in Product Management, Design, Frontend, Backend and Mobile. At CoinJar, you can expect to take ownership in projects from inception and influence the future product directions based on your expertise.
We are hiring a Senior Mobile Engineer who will join our team to develop the next generation of CoinJar mobile apps. CoinJar is one of the first digital currency companies in the world to feature both iOS and Android apps.
You will:
Build our next-generation iOS and Android apps with mobile-first experiences.
Implement features and bug fixes on our existing mobile apps in the mean time.
Constantly think about performance, security and usability.
Work with other engineers, product manager and company management to deliver our product vision and roadmap.
Requirements
Essential Requirements
You have at least 3 years of experience in software engineering in at least one of Objective-C, Java, Swift or Kotlin.
You've previously built a reasonably complex native mobile app published in the App Store or Play Store.
You're passionate about building FinTech products for everyday consumers.
Nice to have
You have made contributions to open source projects.
You have a strong UX design background.
Benefits
We are a team of creative and passionate people working to solve challenging engineering problems. We listen to customers, and ship code frequently.
You'll get a laptop on your first day with your preferred configuration. We use macOS or Linux.
We have a flexible hours system and you also have the option to work from home 0-2 days a week.
We offer employee equity in addition to your base salary, with some of the most generous terms in the market.
Fee-free trading on CoinJar!


Original link: https://coinjar.workable.com/j/CD5DFF2D6D
