Melbourne, Victoria, Australia · Engineering · EN-F-ME
Description
CoinJar is one of Australia's fastest growing startups and a trusted market leader in the digital currency industry. We build consumer-friendly products with strong focus on security, scalability and usability.
Our Engineering Team is a product-oriented cross-functional team with capabilities in Product Management, Design, Frontend, Backend and Mobile. At CoinJar, you can expect to take ownership in projects from inception and influence the future product directions based on your expertise.
We are hiring a Frontend Engineer who will join our team to develop our web apps. We have been running Single-Page Apps since 2014. Our current frontend stack is AngularJS and React, with the newer projects most likely being done in React or React Native.
You will:
Work on the next evolution of CoinJar in a frontend-heavy project.
Implement features and UI iterations on our existing frontend apps.
Constantly think about web performance, security and usability.
Work with other engineers, product manager and company management to deliver our product vision and roadmap.
Requirements
Essential Requirements
You have at least 2 years of experience in JavaScript development.
You've previously built a web app in Angular, React or Vue as a personal or commercial project.
As the frontend ecosystem can change quickly, you need to be willing and able to learn new things quickly.
You're passionate about building FinTech products for everyday consumers.
Nice to have
You have made contributions to open source projects.
You have a UX or design background.
Benefits
We are a team of creative and passionate people working to solve challenging engineering problems. We listen to customers, and ship code frequently.
You'll get a laptop on your first day with your preferred configuration. We use macOS or Linux.
We have a flexible hours system and you also have the option to work from home 0-2 days a week.
We offer employee equity in addition to your base salary, with some of the most generous terms in the market.
Fee-free trading on CoinJar!


Original link: https://coinjar.workable.com/j/3FED6AFC7E
