We seek an experienced software engineer to build the next generation of peer-to-peer networks. 
Engineering at Protocol Labs
Engineering at Protocol Labs is not just about writing world-class code. We create software systems that tackle significant challenges. We aim to solve those challenges with new technology breakthroughs and great user experience design.  We believe in an open-source approach to creation. We strike a balance between pragmatism (put it on a ship ⛴), deeply informed protocol design, and strict application of strong engineering principles. All of this happens in an environment defined by curiosity, passion, and a love for open source.
As a Peer-to-Peer Networking Engineer at Protocol Labs you might...
Build the next generation of peer-to-peer software, working on projects like libp2p, IPFS and Filecoin
Participate in the design and implementation of performant and resilient distributed applications
Create or maintain software libraries and programs depended on by other systems and applications
Integrate research results into real programs
Work alongside a cross-functional team including engineering, design, community, product, and business
Engage and educate the community, from users to contributors
Work on public open source repositories with broader communities
You may be a fit for this role if you have...
BA/BS degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, related field or equivalent practical experience 
Experience programming in one or more of the following: Go, Javascript, Rust, C, C++, Haskell, Ocaml, Python
Leadership experience building and maintaining large-scale distributed systems in production 
Significant experience building peer-to-peer applications 
Deep understanding of network protocols 
Excellent written and verbal communication skills 
Bonus Points
Experience leading and guiding Open Source projects 
Experience working with libp2p and/or IPFS 
What’s it like to work at Protocol Labs?
Protocol Labs mission is to improve humanity’s most important technology, the Internet. We build protocols, systems, and tools to improve how it works. Today, we are focused on how we store, locate, and move information. Our projects include IPFS, Filecoin, libp2p, and more.
As a distributed team, we hire anywhere in the world, and at various levels of experience (entry, senior, staff). We look for people with unique perspectives and diverse backgrounds.


Original link: https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/e4a469e4-c420-4ae5-acea-44c33a03dbd2
