Seeking a seasoned software engineer with a specialization in cryptography to help shape the next generation of network protocols. 
Engineering at Protocol Labs
Engineering at Protocol Labs is not just about writing world-class code. We create software systems that tackle significant challenges. We aim to solve those challenges with new technology breakthroughs and great user experience design.  We believe in an open-source approach to creation. We strike a balance between pragmatism (put it on a ship ⛴), deeply informed protocol design, and strict application of strong engineering principles. All of this happens in an environment defined by curiosity, passion, and a love for open source.
As a Software Engineer in Cryptography at Protocol Labs you might...
Build the next generation of peer-to-peer software, working on projects like libp2p, IPFS and Filecoin
Participate in the design of applications integrating new cryptographic primitives
Integrate research results into real programs
Work alongside a cross-functional team including engineering, design, community, product, and business
Educate the team on how to design and build systems with security first
You may be a fit for this role if you have...
MS degree in Computer Science, Mathematics, or a related field 
Demonstrated the ability to implement cryptographic primitives
Experience programming in one or more of the following: Go, Rust, C, C++, Haskell, Ocaml
Significant experience building secure applications 
In-depth knowledge of authentication protocols and applied cryptography
Knowledge of the latest attack trends, tools and the threat landscape
Proven track record of independently driving projects in a fast-paced environment
Excellent communication skills on both technical and non-technical issues
Bonus Points
Experience working and contributing to Open Source projects 
What’s it like to work at Protocol Labs?
Protocol Labs mission is to improve humanity’s most important technology, the Internet. We build protocols, systems, and tools to improve how it works. Today, we are focused on how we store, locate, and move information. Our projects include IPFS, Filecoin, libp2p, and more.
As a distributed team, we hire anywhere in the world, and at various levels of experience (entry, senior, staff). We look for people with unique perspectives and diverse backgrounds.


Original link: https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/9afbc1c9-8b3b-4c03-856d-6b0cb5518eaa
