We seek an outstanding Infrastructure Engineer to help lay the foundation for a more resilient, more secure, decentralized version of the web.
Engineering at Protocol Labs
Engineering at Protocol Labs is not just about writing world-class code. We create software systems that tackle significant challenges. We aim to solve those challenges with new technology breakthroughs and great user experience design.  We believe in an open-source approach to creation. We strike a balance between pragmatism (put it on a ship ⛴), deeply informed protocol design, and strict application of strong engineering principles. All of this happens in an environment defined by curiosity, passion, and a love for open source.
As an Infrastructure Engineer at Protocol Labs you will…
Develop tools and best practices for operating, debugging, and monitoring cutting edge Internet protocols such as IPFS and libp2p
Enable cross-functional product and project teams to serve their own deployment needs
Build and maintain CI/CD infrastructure for our open source projects
Work within the IPFS and Filecoin teams and communities to store Petabytes of data
Maintain the public HTTP-to-IPFS gateway, serving millions of requests per day
Manage our IP networks (we’re AS40680 ) and DNS
Come up with creative ways of interoperating with existing Internet infrastructure at all layers of the stack
You may be a fit for this role if you have...
Knowledge of core Internet protocols (BGP, IP, TCP, DNS, TLS, HTTP)
Experience managing fleets of Linux machines
Experience with container and cluster management tools (Nomad, Kubernetes, Docker)
Experience collaborating closely with software engineers, from design to development to production support
A hands-on, playful, proactive approach to your work
Bonus Points
Experience contributing to or leading open source projects
Published about your work (code, presentations, papers, blog, etc)
Excellent written and verbal communication skills
What’s it like to work at Protocol Labs?
Protocol Labs mission is to improve humanity’s most important technology, the Internet. We build protocols, systems, and tools to improve how it works. Today, we are focused on how we store, locate, and move information. Our projects include IPFS, Filecoin, libp2p, and more.
As a distributed team, we hire anywhere in the world, and at various levels of experience (entry, senior, staff). We look for people with unique perspectives and diverse backgrounds.


Original link: https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/a8640ecf-4b1a-490a-bf94-b205059cfe38
