Ledger Bounty Program
Senior Software Engineer
As part of its strong growth, Ledger – a technology leader in digital asset and crypto-security solutions – is looking for a Senior Software Engineer (backend). You will be responsible for developing and scaling a backend application to allow hundreds thousand people to process their transaction in the crypto-currency world.
Are you able to develop high performance solutions? Do  you have experience in continuous integration? Join our team, one of the world’s leaders in one of the most innovative technology sectors!
Missions
Develop a technological stack to explore the contents of a blockchain (Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple, Monero …).
Optimize the overall performance of the application.
Audit our current technological stack.
Conduct benchmarks to identify bottlenecks.
Creation of the software architecture of the blockchain explorer.
Develop blockchain abstraction technology to easily integrate new crypto-currencies.
Set up  monitoring for server applications to detect unexpected failures / behavior.
Set up continuous integration to deploy / test the blockchain explorer.
Required profile
Engineer profile with at least 5 years of experience in Java / Scala.
Good knowledge of *nix operating systems.
Open source lover (90% of our code is available on Github)
Experience with continuous integration solutions.
Capable of self-training and monitoring of backend-oriented technologies.
Having a strong interest in cryptocurrencies and wishing to work  with blockchain technology.
Knowledge of AWS solutions is appreciated.
Apply
To apply, please send your CV (PDF only) to [email protected]  with the subject [JOBS] Senior Software Eng.
Founded in 2014, Ledger is a leader in security and infrastructure solutions for cryptocurrencies and blockchain applications. Headquartered in Paris, Vierzon and San Francisco, Ledger has a team of 80 professionals developing a variety of products and services to safeguard cryptocurrency assets for individuals and companies – including the Ledger hardware wallets line already sold in 165 countries.
LINKS


Original link: https://www.ledger.fr/join-us/senior-software-engineer/
