ANDROID APP DEVELOPER
 
Netki is a team of problem-solvers who share a passion for impact, and entrepreneurial spirit. We’re at that pivot point of growth that only happens once in a company’s history, when all the “firsts” are realized and where every role is part-creator, part-maker, and all insanely rewarding. If the opportunity to make your mark on a game-changing space speaks to you, there’s no better time than now to join us.
Your Mission
As a member of our Engineering team, you will build and deliver Android applications and SDK’s that will enhance Netki’s products to be smarter, faster and more user-friendly. Your work will be deployed globally across millions of users’ phones. You can look forward to working on technology that helps make ID validation technology smarter and more accessible to the blockchain community and beyond.
Just a few things you might expect to sink your teeth into:
Working with our product and business teams on discovering what can make our already Best-In-Class product even better for our customers
Incorporating Machine-Learning and Computer Vision tools to mobile devices for more intelligent, real-time performance
Exploring the possibilities of building other tools that improve the facial recognition capabilities of mobile devices
Is This You?
You have worked with camera controls on multiple android versions and devices
You have a functional understanding of computer vision libraries and image processing algorithms
You have built production-level Android apps and SDK’s with a substantial number of users behind them
Your Java skills are solid (devs looking to rely solely on Kotlin need not apply)
You’re a software engineer first, a mobile developer second; you come with solid OO design skills and best practices that produce clean, well-tested and scalable code that devs other than you don’t need a ton of documentation to understand and extend
You have experience developing stand-alone and modular libraries
You’re comfortable sprinting in a startup environment, where you may need to take more initiative on translating user requirements into technical specs
Contact Netki
For more information on joining our team, please fill out this form and someone will contact you shortly.
Send
We've partnered with leading technology, blockchain, and financial organizations to deliver the most comprehensive ID validation solution available.
Human Interactions. Secured.
We are committed to unleashing the innovative power of technology, so people everywhere can interact and transact safely and securely.


Original link: https://netki.com/jobs/androiddev/
