Mail
Hi there! Thanks so much for taking this step to get to know us and for inviting us to get to know you better. We're always looking for the next person who could be a great fit for the Revelator team! Is it you?
Revelator  (www.revelator.com ), a cloud based music technology platform providing end to end solutions to content verticals (online music and video) is looking for a highly motivated individual to fill the role of Data Scientist.  
What We're Looking For
The Revelator product team is looking for a talented Data Scientist to be part of its product & development team. The Data Scientist will help us design insightful dashboard, analytics and reporting from our massive data sources. 
The skills you bring 
Your expertise in languages such as Python (especially Pandas), Ruby, Go, JavaScript and Java, as well as strong Unix shell skills
Your Big Data Skills with popular stacks like Hadoop and Spark
Your knowledge of AWS
Your experience with BI tools.
Your hands on experience in all phases of data modeling, from conceptualization to database optimization.
Ability to understand business problems and translate into insightful dashboards, relevant metrics and pertinent data analysis.
Your desire and aptitude for learning new technologies
Your passion and intellectual curiosity to learn new technologies and business areas
Requirements
Bachelor’s degree or higher in a technology related field (e.g. Engineering, Computer Science, etc.) required.
5+ years of hands-on experience applying principles, best practices and trade-offs of schema design to various types of database systems: relational (Oracle, MSSQL, Postgres, MySQL), NoSQL (HBase, Couchbase, Cassandra, MongoDB) , Understanding data manipulation principles.
5+ years of hands-on experience in one or more modern Object Oriented Programming languages (preferably Python)
2+ Hands-on experience in distributed back-end enterprise software platforms.
2+ years of hands-on experience in implementing batch and real-time Big Data integration frameworks and/or applications, in private or public cloud, preferably AWS, using various technologies (Hadoop, Spark, Impala, etc); debugging, identifying performance bottlenecks and fine-tuning those frameworks.
Experience and comfort executing projects in Agile environments (Kanban and Scrum).


Original link: https://jobs.revelator.com/jobs/106303-data-scientist-engineer
